Now, we'll begin our discussion of Asian-American history with the first migratory flow of Asians to the United States. And these groups would be the Chinese immigrants during the mid 19th century and they'll be followed by the Japanese um during the late 19th century and early 20th century. But by the way, the first documented Asians to United States were actually Filipinos. They were working on the Aapulco uh gallian trade network and they arrived in what's called Mororrow Bay today. I believe it's near Santa Barbara maybe in California. Uh and they arrived in 1587. Okay, but it's a very small number. Uh the first significant migratory flow were the Chinese. Okay, Chinese migrants coming to the United States. Now the question emerges, what led to the migration of Chinese to the United States in the first place by you know this time in the mid 1800s and the answer to this question directs us to an interesting historical um connection or interconnection. Actually if you look at the slide um the aspects of this interconnection involve capitalist expansion, labor and race. Okay. And um this is our first theme in the co in the course obviously and you know should be mentioned that this particular interconnection applies not to just Asian migrants but to many other uh ethnic groups you know before Asians and certainly after uh Asians. In fact today it's still applicable. Um when you think about for example the first African slaves arriving in the early 1600s um in the Virginia colony for example you know you think about labor you think about the plantation system which is very early form of uh capitalism. All right. And then you move forward to our industrial revolution, which is roughly the the time period we're discussing Asian-American history. And that takes place um officially after the Civil War um through the 20th century. Well, there's going to be other ethnic groups involved in this interconnection like Italian immigrants and Eastern Europeans, you know, Polish, Jewish, um and so forth, right? uh they'll be working in the factories, right? uh they'll populate uh they'll dominate really the uh factory um population right working in the huge industrial cities like New York and you know Chicago and so forth and then as I mentioned just fast forward to today you know you can see this connection applying to let's say um South Asians right uh say people from India Pakistan you know working in for example the technological sector in Silicon Valley, right? Um so this interconnection um is definitely uh a very wide one. Okay, it cast a wide net so to speak. But uh we'll discuss this interconnection as you know as it specifically applies to the Chinese and the Japanese as I just mentioned. All right. So what are we talking about uh in this interconnection? So here's a actually a brief it's quite complicated but here's a brief u explanation of this interconnection. All right. Well, if you know anything about capitalism as an economic system, economic approach, you know, uh as a particular um let's say economic modality, you know, what preceded capitalism, you might know this, is feudalism. And this is what characterized um the economic systems of the medieval period, right? Where it's it's profoundly agrarian. needless to say is before you know factories and so forth you know um and things were very local okay and um again move forward to early capitalism you see um particularly Europe starting to break away from the feudal world okay and they're developing early forms of capitalism um by the um 1600s uh some say even before that. But nonetheless, um what you're seeing is capitalism taking over feudalism. It doesn't happen overnight. It's actually uh happens in slow motion. But in our country, the United States of America, we've had um mostly in place from the beginning of English settlement um a market system in place. Okay, that's not to say there were some feudal elements in the very beginning in, you know, early Chesapeake uh settlement or even Puritan settlement in New England, but for the most part, there's always been the market economy. We don't have a purely feudal past. Now, um now capitalism itself inheres in expansion. What does this mean? It's inherently expansionist, right? It must expand. It doesn't just stay static or stagnant. Okay? In fact, that's how you should think of feudalism. It's just stagnant, right? It doesn't grow. But, uh there's this, you know, uh sense of um growth when when I think about capitalism as a system, right? Uh for example, think about a um a coffee shop, right? today even and let's say it's it becomes um you know successful. So they decide to expand, open another uh coffee shop across town, right? And that's successful too. So they're making more money, you know, the the owners. So they decide to move into the next uh state and you know it expands state by state. Finally, it's national and who knows it could be even international at one point. In fact, when you think about Starbucks, that's exactly what happens. It starts with one coffee shop and it just expands if it's successful. Okay? Now, you could talk about many industries. You could talk about um um you know the um let's just say Nike or McDonald's um or you know the technological sector again. All right. So, um that's the nature of capitalism. it inheres in expansionism like I said now during this period we're talking about okay um the 19th century we're specifically talking about Asians but again I should say it applies to other groups as well uh for example European southern and European laborers coming over to work in a factory but um when we think about capitalism and its expansion ionist tendencies, right? Um, you have to recognize the fact that the largest cost that cuts into your profit is labor. Okay, first of all, I should say this that it's profit that's the motor of um capitalism. So, let me move to the next uh slide here. Okay. So as I mentioned in this slide at the very top there uh this should seem intuitive to you that uh what propels capitalism you know in its expansionist tendency is profit primarily. Okay that is the motor the engine of pro of capitalist expansion profit. Okay. uh for example in our hypothetical case of a small coffee shop the reason why they want to expand to the next area geographically is because of profit right you want to make more profit and when you think about the nature of profit itself okay uh in principle as a definition profit could never be satisfied okay the nature of profit is that you have to make more in the future than you did you know at that present date uh needs to say more than you did in the past right it has to be larger you have to make larger profit margins right so um this means that um this is the motor of capitalism again okay the pursuit of profit is what's leading to the geographic expansion of capitalism itself Okay. Now, I just mentioned this that when we think about um you know costs, right, that are cutting into profit and indeed there's a a saying here, a slogan that says, you know, maximize profit, minimize cost. You know, if you want to maximize your profit, well, you must minimize the cost involved in making your product, right? So, uh, most industrialists and capitalists realize that what's cutting most into their profit or profit goals are the costs associated with labor. Okay? You have to pay wages to your labors. Well, guess what? The amount of pay that you pay them, it um cuts the most into your profits. Okay? And therefore you could say that um you know if this is the case then you want to find the cheapest labor possible. Okay. So in other words cheap labor is highly sought after by the capitalist and especially at this stage. Okay. Um so the question emerges where do you find the cheapest labor? Well, this takes us to the answer to that. It's usually found abroad, outside the borders of the United States. Okay, so hopefully you can see where I'm going here with this logic that I'm sort of spelling out in this interconnection, right? If profit is the edge of capitalist expansion, well, what cuts into profit the most is cheap is labor, excuse me. And therefore you want to find the cheapest labor possible. Where do you find this? Abroad. And this applies to the Italian immigrants coming over, the Jewish immigrants coming over. You know, the East Coast, you know, Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island and all that. But in the West, where would the labor force be found? You don't really go to the Atlantic across the Atlantic to find the cheapest labor. You're in the American West, right? And therefore you look to Asia, you look towards the Pacific Ocean. That is where you're going to find your cheapest labor. Okay. So again, hopefully you could see the interconnection here between, you know, um capitalist expansion driven by profit, the nature of labor and how that's related to capitalist growth. And in our country at least, how race figures prominently here. And you know, here you're seeing economics tied to race, right, to society really. You're seeing how economics is uh interconnected to the racial dynamics. you know, whether you're talking about the first African-American slaves coming over, different ethnic groups from Europe, like the Irish, the Polish and so forth, Jewish, and even up till today when, you know, for example, you have, you know, Indian engineers or scientists coming over where it's, you know, not exactly unskilled labor, of course, it's highly skilled, but it's still cheaper to hire someone from India. uh let's say engineer from India compared to engineer who just graduated from UCSD it's cheaper so uh many um industries will do exactly that right will hire more uh foreign labor on a H1B visa right compared to um you know the um the native labor right okay so we'll move on to the next video.