Okay. So, we're talking about a new um labor migration here um within this context of capitalist expansion, labor and race. And that's a Japanese migrating to Hawaii. And of course, they're serving as a cheap labor force working within these sugar plantations. And these plantations are owned by Americans. And therefore that um uh connection to race still applies here even though Hawaii is obviously different from the West Coast. Hawaii is a colony that's newly acquired by the United States uh by the late 1800s. And um we'll discuss this later in a future lecture about US expansion into the Pacific uh military expansion and imperialism and colonization. In any case, uh we have to mention that uh previous to the Japanese, there were some Chinese workers in Hawaii and a small number remained in Hawaii as the Japanese arrived. But they found that the Chinese were prone to um return home as we know they're sojourners. That's their tradition as uh labor migrants. And then they also tried to hire those local Hawaiians. But then, you know, as you could imagine, the Hawaiians were prone to resistance towards this. Uh, the Americans were on their land. They could easily escape. Um, if they were forced on these sugar plantations. Moreover, the American owners stereotyped them as lazy. And in fact, they're not lazy. They just don't want to work uh right under the direction of these invaders. Okay. So what's the logical solution to this labor shortage? Well, it's Japan as it would turn out. Okay. And similar to the earlier Chinese in the Guangdong province, you see these uh would be labors in Japan sign a contract that specified the plantation uh they would arrive at. Uh you actually see some families arrive. Family groupings were kept intact. you know often people from the same villages in Japan they ended up in the same plantation. So at least at least this um gave rise to some you know sense of familiarity in this strange uh place called Hawaii. Um now the conditions on the Hawaiian plantation were very primitive. Okay. Um overcrowded sleeping quarters, no privacy, very unsanitary conditions. Um and the Japanese complained about that right away. Okay. The nature of work was very unpleasant and you know very laborious uh kind of work, very regimented. Um there was this whistle that went off at 5 in the morning which basically uh marked the beginning of the day and the laborers would work in these gangs. They would be headed by this guy called Aluna. And Aluna was basically the guy in charge of the workers and he was usually on horseback and he supervised each step here uh in the production process um that the laborers were uh working towards and they were known for their cruelty. Okay, they abused uh the workers verbally and physically. All right. And the workers were not allowed breaks, needless to say. Uh not even short breaks, no stretching, uh none of that, right? Uh they were forced to work in these grueling conditions. Uh you could almost imagine this um type of work, right? You had to plow the fields, cultivate uh the fields in preparation for planting the sugar cane. You had to ho the earth. uh to get rid of the weeds. You had to dig ditches for irrigation. You had to uh when you get when you cultivated the um sugar cane, you had to strip the dead leaves from the stocks. And these stocks, if you look at this picture here, they grew up to 12 feet high. All right? So, you had to um cut the stocks and load them onto the carts. you had to transport the stocks to the mills and unload them there, place them on the crushers, right, in the mills of uh and that's how they extract the juice. So, it was a very laborious process as I mentioned and uh you have to remember they were paid uh very low wages to do this type of labor intensive work. Now after some time and some experience uh with this uh type of work and full knowledge that they were being underpaid and therefore exploited. Well, you see this effort among the workers uh towards getting together and threatening uh to stop their labor unless their work conditions improve and of course their wages increase. So of course the uh plantation owners will refuse this because it will um of course interfere with their profit making right and it leads to these strikes and they were often deadly. Okay, this is uh less known in this history of you know um labor in Hawaii, right? This uh deadly strike 17 dead and strike strike riot as mentioned here. Um Hawaii sugar plantations are burning. And here's another one that says 24,000 sugar workers in Hawaii are called out by Federation. Uh excuse the um epithet there, but that's what they called it. Right. By the way, later you'll see some Filipinos venturing to Hawaii. All right? And hence you have here sh Filipino sugar plantation workers strike in Hawaii. Uh what's going to happen in terms of Filipinos is that uh eventually the Philippines would be colonized as a formal colony of the United States and therefore they're now seen as a potential uh source of cheap labor. Right? And this would be first um um this would first materialize in terms of Filipino labor migration to Hawaii. And uh here's how the owners look at it, the sugar plantation owners, uh they thought that by bringing in a different racial group into the plantation and um deliberately separating them by race. Okay. By the way, I should mention this that there's Japanese, there's um some Chinese but less in number compared to the Japanese. Eventually, Filipinos arrive by the early 1900s and even some Puerto Ricans and Portuguese. So, it's very multithnic here in terms of its labor force. Now, as I was explaining just earlier, they would deliberately uh segregate each group. Okay? And this was very deliberate because they wanted to create the sense of ethnic antagonism in the plantation setting. Why would they do this, by the way? Why would they deliberately make sure that the races are separate from each other? Okay. Well, this is their way of what you could call, you know, divide and conquer, right? A strategy called divide and conquer, right? So, the hope was that racial antagonism would prevent this unionization effort. That is to say, it was hoped that race would trump social class in this setting. Uh this is what the owners did. They hoped that you know this different groups uh would be too involved in their ethnic conflicts to prevent um this um unionization, right, and labor formation based on social class. But eventually um that didn't work really because sure it worked in the beginning, right? You had Filipinos um conflicting with Japanese and so forth, Puerto Ricans conflicting with this group. But eventually uh the workers realize that hey, they're in the same ditch, so to speak, right? And therefore, they should put aside their ethnic differences and think along uh social class lines, right? They should think about their commonality as a social class. So again you have social class eventually overcoming race in this context and it did uh lead to successful strikes happening in in Hawaii. Now by 1900 Hawaii officially became a colony of the United States and therefore you see some American industrialists in the west. must remember our discussion of western industries right and in particular you see the aggra business sector um contemplating the possibility of employing Japanese cheap labor as replacement labor for the Chinese who no longer were allowed to the United States after the 1882 Chinese exclusion act. Okay. So uh you see aggra business interest actually uh going to Hawaii and campaigning there and they used the prospect of higher wages compared to the sugar plantation wages. Right. And indeed it was very successful in convincing many of the Japanese uh sugar plantation workers in Hawaii to migrate to the US west. And therefore after 1900 you see roughly 34,000 Japanese workers leaving Hawaii for the mainland of the United States. Well, the West Coast, right? And this would start in 1900 and continue until 1907, which is a crucial year as we'll discuss in a second. So when the Japanese laborers start arriving in the US west in significant numbers, uh the best way to describe the nature of labor was that uh it was radically migratory. Okay, radically migratory. uh and to understand this you have to think in comparative terms to that typical European immigrant let's say uh migrating from Europe to that industrial city you know they usually uh came and they incorporated themselves within their respective ethnic neighborhood let's say the Irish neighborhood the Italian neighborhood and then they typically worked at a factory nearby and that was it right? Their uh working lives were uh basically um based on that factory. Now the factory is stationary but agricultural work is not stationary. It's migratory. So imagine these workers traversing up and down the coast of the US and wherever they were needed that's where they went right to um harvest the crops. So typically they might find themselves in Washington state for maybe 2 weeks, 3 weeks, what have you. Once they did their work there in harvesting or cultivating uh perhaps they were needed all the way down in Sanwain Valley in California. So they migrated there and then after that it could be Coachella Valley in Southern California. So they found themselves there for two weeks, six weeks, whatever it took, right? So they're always moving in search of farmwork from one place to the next. Right? So this is the nature of wage labor because they were employed by various you know uh companies, agricultural corporations, right? And um what does this mean? It means of course less permanent settlement especially when you think about or you compare it to that typical European immigrant coming in at the same time the Japanese are but on the west uh excuse me on the eastern uh side of the country. Now in terms of community, you you could say there's no definitive place of settlement, right? This is what was entailed with that type of migratory work. But eventually the Japanese began to realize that um you know they they would like to form family here in the United States. So let me bring up some differences between the Japanese and earlier Chinese. Number one is you would see more family formation, okay, among the Japanese. Okay, I already mentioned that there's already more women coming here compared to the Chinese, right? Um 25% of the migration was were women. Another important distinction is that the Japanese Maji state, the Maji government was powerful because the Japanese Empire was becoming a respected uh power on the global stage and therefore they were able to protect Japanese citizens abroad. Now the earlier Chinese were unable to seek protection from theQing government whenever they encountered problems in the United States. Okay. So that's one huge uh distinction. Because of the weakqing government, China could not appeal to their home government. Japanese laborers on the other hand could appeal to their strong government and uh uh that had respect throughout the world. And this would figure prominently in the way that they would deal with discrimination in the United States.