We were discussing the distinctions between the earlier Chinese immigrants arriving to the west coast compared to that of the labor force that would replace the Chinese. Of course, this is the Japanese. And um two distinctions we made earlier were that um for the um Japanese laborers, they were much more better protected by the Japanese government, the major government because the major government was growing respectable uh in the global um scene. Another uh distinction was that you see more family formation coming over um compared to that of the um earlier Chinese. One thing you're going to see in the beginning is it's not going to be completely males with the Japanese. You're going to see a ratio of roughly 3 to one. But then we're going to talk about how uh Japanese women would actually enter the United States in significant numbers through uh a passport system that's very unique and that's forthcoming in just a sec. But another distinction um in contrast to the Chinese was the fact that the Japanese embraced assimilation more so than the earlier Chinese. And let's remember the earlier Chinese were sojers for the most part. I mean sure there's some merchants that stay but uh many of them were contract workers and they were working for a um a temporary um a temporary contract and they had that sojouring attitude that they were returning to their homeland of China. Therefore why try to assimilate? Now this will be in contrast with the later Japanese and you could see this illustration here of you know both sides actually the farmers themselves are not wearing traditional Japanese attire so to here it's very modern and western in this picture here. So why did they uh try to assimilate more so? Well, number one, um, they began to have families here. So, in other words, you start seeing family formation among the Japanese. And here you see an important distinction here. Uh, the Japanese in America actually came up with words to uh denote the first generation as to say the immigrant generation compared to those children born on US soil. And that's the second generation. So uh the um immigrants were called Eay and the second generation Japanese were called Nissi. Again those are uh those children born in the US. So that's one reason why you see them assimilate because they understand they're going to be in America you know not temporarily but permanently. Another reason is the Japanese was fully aware of the plight and predicament of the Chinese uh that they replaced as labor. Right? So they were aware that there was a lot of anti-Asian sentiment and therefore they felt that perhaps if they assimilated more they might be accepted more and uh hopefully preclude that possibility of uh being um subject to uh racial discrimination and even violence that the Chinese uh experience but we'll see uh was not exactly successful. Now, one important institution in Japanese American life is called the picture bride system. And I alluded to this earlier. And the picture bride system was a way for Japanese laborers who were bachelors who were not married on the west coast to actually bring wives over to the United States. Uh so um what they did is use this agency in Japan that served as marriage brokers if you will and they would uh uh they would um basically find wives prospective wives for the Japanese men on the west coast. Okay. Now interestingly enough if you look this picture you see the women dressed in traditional attire like a kimono and the makeup and what have you. The men on the other hand, the brokers, right, are westernized. And you know, here are also some pictures of a western westernized man compared to the pitcher bride. And by the way, why do they call it a picture bride? It's because um both sides uh did not formally meet each other until uh the uh wife arrived in the US West. Okay. Rather they exchanged photographs and that's really the only um if you will knowledge they had of their the physical appearance of their uh future husband or wife, right? chest through pictures and again you know um here uh is that institution of the picture bride agency and typically the women once they left sure they uh were dressed in traditional attire but once they arrived on the west coast of the United States they were expected to acculturate in some lake right away in fact many of them were required to abandon their traditional um clothing and attire hair and change their physical appearance to that of a western woman. Okay, not unlike the man here who is a westernstyled man. Okay, so the implications of this is clear what's going to happen and especially in contrast to the earlier Chinese what's going to happen is the formation of family as seen here. I know this woman is dressed uh traditionally but still um you know uh the man isn't and you know like I said they were westernized but you have families you have eay to use their term right you have second generation here in the United States and again this is going to make a significant impact on Japanese American life as we will discuss now as we noted earlier here the first Japanese arriving whether from Japan or even Hawaii if you recall uh many of them were single though it was not a sort of monolithic uh gendered labor force. There were some women but many were single and of course the picture bride system is going to lead to family formation and um therefore there was no real formation of community so to speak and also recall that the nature of labor for them it was radically migratory and they had to face you know the harsh conditions wherever they traveled to plus you know the fact that they could never um remain in one case and uh for many they found this um not exactly the best conditions. So what the Japanese realized eventually the Japanese farmers is that they could actually own land or at the very least lease land right land and grow their own crops because they're so good at it at this point and they they could become independent farmers. they could leave the ranks of those aggraus corporations and work independently. Okay. So this is what started here with the Japanese. They began to save money that they made working for those aggraus corporations. Eventually broke free from them and they either leased land and even bought land and they became independent farmer operators and this became the inclination of the Japanese and what they wanted to do of course is um move up the agricultural ladder so to speak. Right now you can see this in particular statistics here when it comes to land owning by the Japanese. Uh in 1905 for example the Japanese owned only 2,442 acres of land in California. Okay. It's the start. It's the beginning of this inclination I just referred to. Now move forward to eight years after 1905. By 1913, this increased to 26,77 acres of land in California. Okay? You went from 2,442 acres of land in 1905 to 26,77 in 1913. So, they knew that they should buy land and um and um strike it on the Rome, right? Because let's remember they're being exploited by aggra business um corporations. They're being paid half the wages of an American worker. So in other words, the Japanese are leaving the ranks of aggra business corporation and from the perspective of aggra business this does not bode well. They do not like this inclination of the Japanese to become independent. So you put that together uh this um tendency to become independent, independent workers, independent farmers. Put that together with a picture bride system and the formation of families, right? Buying that land means they're here permanently. Having families means they're here permanently. So look at this uh slide. You have family formation through the picture system. you have land ownership increasing and not only that you have the effort to assimilate. So, uh they are no longer um sojouring in their tendency. Now, one thing I I believe I neglected to say earlier is that many of the Japanese who first went to the US West and Hawaii were indeed uh sojuners. Okay? And they actually had a term for that in Japan. The term in Japan for sojers was deci as seen in this slide. Okay. Now uh fast forward to the early 1900s. If you have found information, land ownership, assimilation, and you plan to be here permanently, well, you're abandoning your deci outlook if you're one of those Japanese, right? You're abandoning that sojer outlook. So um this is actually going to lead therefore to uh the emergence of anti-Japanese sentiment because now you see the Japanese buying all this land and uh many of the white um residents in some areas realize the Japanese are buying land. They realize that uh their homes are starting to encroach if you will in their neighborhoods and therefore they do not like this for uh racial reasons. And you see again the emergence of anti-Asian sentiment not unlike that of the earlier anti-Chinese sentiment which of course was anti-Asian as well. So anti-Japanese sentiment emerges and you see sites like this, you know, Japs keep moving to use that epithet. You know, this is a white man's neighborhood. Japs keep out. Here is a politician um advocating the deportation of Japanese. And you could see how um what I described earlier, right? This tendency to be um permanent settlers in the United States and to have their families. And you have to think this, their families here, you know, they're going to have I don't know how many children, maybe three or four, right? And maybe even more. And then they're going to have children. You're going to see third generation. And you're going to see, in other words, the numbers of Japanese begin to increase on the west coast. One thing you have to remember here is, sure, there were the earlier Chinese, but again, besides that u area of Chinatown, there was no pervasive presence of a Japanese all all over the place, right? There was no real encroachment in many of the neighborhoods. The Japanese are different from that, okay? Because of their attitude of being permanent sellers. They are buying land, buying property. And uh the fear here, if you were a nivist, you were anti-immigrant and needless to say, anti-Asian. Well, this uh was alarming to you. And you see the rise of various anti-Japanese and I should say anti Korean because there were a small number of Koreans coming over. I say small compared to the Japanese. Okay. Uh but there were some Korean a few thousand Korean workers coming over to the west coast as well. you see the mergence of anti-Japanese and anti- Korean um leagues form that is to say you know groups community groups that form and uh what they want to do is appeal to their politicians uh uh and to promote this idea that the Japanese should be kicked