So we were discussing the emergence of anti-Japanese sentiment on the west coast and due to increasing pressure from these various anti-Japanese nivists. Um, and let's remember this was spurred by the threat of permanent presence of the Japanese because they're land owners and because of family formation. Uh, now you have a critical mass of Japanese on the west coast. So, uh, this led to a formation of, uh, what were called quote white patriotic leagues unquote. Again, these were these organizations that I alluded to last time. Um and the effort were was to stem the immigrant flow from Japan and prevent them from permanent settlement. And also um this led to two particular legal strategies that tried to prevent the expansion of Japanese communities during the early 1900s. And these were the gentleman agreement which was enacted in 1907. And then you'll see also a couple of alien land acts. One being passed in 1913 and 1920. Okay. So what were these all about? Now first thing we have to remember here is that Japan now held formidable status as an empire as a military power visav the United States and western powers western empires. So they were able to protect their citizens abroad. Um and we'll we'll see this in the case of the gentleman's agreement. All right. What leds to the gentleman's agreement? What is it and what led to it? Well, first of all, uh let's remember that there's nay now, young children that attend school on the west coast, in particular San Francisco. And uh because of the emergence of anti-Japanese sentiment um there began this effort by nivists to demand segregation in the schooling system in San Francisco in particular. Okay. Uh they wanted to segregate Japanese and a small number of Korean school children as well. Um but the Japanese the the eay right uh the families the parents did not want this to happen because they knew that's going to lead to um the deterioration of um the quality of education. So um they fought against this. Now a very important event happened on the west coast which was this great earthquake in 1906 and in particular San Francisco. uh was greatly damaged by this. Uh much of its uh buildings and infrastructure were damaged and they had to repair the city. But at this time the anti-Japanese um patriotic leagues so to speak, the nivists saw this as an opportune moment to um segregate the schools because the city is being rebuilt. Okay. So, they wanted to set this law in motion mandating the segregation of quote unquote orientals from uh whites or caucasians. They demanded uh the building of quote oriental schools uh for uh you know not only the Chinese who happen to be in let's say the Chinatown uh in San Francisco but also Japanese. Okay. So as news reached uh the EA well they greatly resented this and they actually appealed to the home government of Japan and as I just described Japan is well respected. In other words, the US government is going to listen to the uh the protests emanating from Japan. And indeed uh the president of the United States himself, President Theodore Roosevelt, who by the way admired uh the Japanese Empire, especially how precipitous their emergence was as an empire. Uh we talked about this uh during the Maji Revolution, right? the Maji restoration whereby you know Japan seemed to modernize overnight just a tremendous feat for that country and because of this Roosevelt admired and he felt he had to intervene here. He was forced to intercede in this west coast conflict right that really was focused uh and localized in San Francisco. Um so um he does intervene here and a a a if you will a compromise is struck here and this is the gentleman's agreement of 1907 and this agreement is as such um Roosevelt agrees that um the Japanese and Korean school children will not be forced to be segregated into these so-called oriental schools. Okay. Integration will uh remain in San Francisco. That at the same time, Japan, it was um required must end the immigration of laborers to the US West. Okay. So, there you go. It's similar somewhat to the 1882 Chinese Exclusion Act in so far as it now prohibits the labor immigration. Let's remember the Chinese Exclusion had some exceptions, right? But if you were a laborer, you could not arrive similar with the gentleman's agreement. Uh laborers were prevented in particular. Uh but you could al you could also have some, you know, passport brides as we mentioned the picture bride systems. You could have uh travelers, you could have uh you know diplomats and what have you. But let's also remember that you know the uh immigration from Japan was comprised almost all of immigrant labor right from Japan. So it was very effective in stemming or curbing that immigration from Japan. Okay. Now, the other law here that we see is the Alien Land Act. Actually, there's two of these, the Alien Land Acts of 1913 and 1920. Now, let me remind you that Japanese are buying so much land. And therefore these alien land acts uh it was definitely a calculated effort to strike at the heart of Japanese economics in the west their economic life that is right okay now first of all notice that it's uh called the alien land act and this is sort of a generic um word here right alien meaning all alien ians or non-citizens when indeed the spirit of the law itself was applied only towards the Japanese. This is very similar by the way to the foreign minor tax, right? It was called uh foreign miners when in fact was applied only to the Chinese on the west coast. In any case, the Alien Land Acts uh were passed to try to prevent the Japanese from buying more land that they already had bought up to that point in 1913. Okay, so basically uh the 1913 Alien Land Act prohibited land ownership by quote aliens ineligible for citizenship. Now we know that um or the meaning of that because we discuss how it was uh created when the Chinese were prevented from coming over, right? And basically it uh proclaimed that all persons of Asian descent could not become uh citizens. But there's an exception to that if you recall and it's important to recognize at this point of our discussion. The exception to that were second generation or stated otherwise those Asians born on US soil. Why? Let's recall the Wong Kimar case of 1898 whereby the US Supreme Court agreed with Wong Kimar that sure uh US uh or excuse me Asian um children born on US soil should indeed enjoy the 14th amendment, right? Uh birthright citizenship. Okay, so here's the Alien Land Act and again it prohibits land ownership by the Japanese. uh but the language they used was aliens in those for citizenship. Moreover, the alien land act set a lease period for aliens at only three years. Meaning that if you were a tenant farmer, if you didn't own land, but you were a tenant farmer, you leased the land, you could only lease it for three years. Now, um here's one thing about the first land act that was passed in 1913. If you know the year 1913 and you know what the following years involve historically 1914 well 1914 would be the beginning of World War I and World War I you know the US would become involved it was fought from 1914 through 1918 and because of the uh exigencies wrought by the war um lawmakers on the west coast realized iz that you know because of the urgent situation they needed to ensure food production uh and indeed they needed to maximize it. So therefore they decided not to enforce the alien land act of 1913. Now one thing about the 1913 alien land act there were actually uh some loopholes that the Japanese recognized here. First of all, let's remember that uh the 1913 land act prohibited land ownership by aliens ineligible for citizenship. But what about those uh who were born on US soil? Those Japanese. What about the Nissi? Even though they were young kids at this time in 1913, at least most of them um they were citizens. They were not aliens in eligible for citizenship. So what did the Japanese do? they decided to title the land in the name of their American-born children and that's a loophole, right? Because uh their children, the nay are born on US soil. Now, um of course the lawmakers began to recognize what was going on, but they're too busy with World War I. But by um 1920 after the war ended, well they realized they need to strengthen the original law and hence you had the passage of the 1920 alien land act. And what this did is of course uh still uh prohibited uh the purchase of land by aliens ineligible for citizenship but it also prohibited them from passing the deed of the land to their children and moreover it completely ended the ability of uh Japanese to lease land altogether. Okay. So there we go. the the Alien Land Act of 1920 is um closing off all those loopholes that were pursued by the earlier Japanese after 1913. And interestingly enough, after uh California passed its 1913 law, you see other states passing though their own versions of um the Alien Land Acts to prevent the Japanese from going there, right? and um um doing what they did in California. You see Arizona, New Mexico, Washington, Montana, and Oregon passing their own versions of the Alien Land Acts. Okay, so one thing to notice here is this, you know, this is economic life as I mentioned for the Japanese. This was a matter of life or death. Uh farming was their bread and butter in America, so to speak, right? And what the alien land acts were attempting to do was to destroy this economic foundation of the Japanese immigrants and their families, right? And um and also they wanted to prevent that permanent settlement of the Japanese Americans now that they're enlarging their presence. So how do you do this? Well, through the Alien Land Act of 1913. You put that together with the gentleman's agreement which as I mentioned uh curbed immigration of the laborers. Well, there we go. It's effective way to uh foreclose that immigration from Japan. So again, what you want to acknowledge here is that these tactics, these legal maneuvers, legal measures struck at the heart of Japanese survival on the West Coast. Right. And again the attempted the attempt was to destroy that um economic foundation that they had established since uh the late 1800s and early 1900s. Now eventually as we know there are some families here. Uh what's going to happen to these families both the Eay the first generation and the nay? what's going to happen to them two decades from this point uh in 1940 specifically during World War II. Well, many of you you may be aware of the fact that the Japanese Americans were indeed uh imprisoned in concentration camps after Pearl Harbor. So these individuals that I've been talking about, the EA and the NIS, two years or excuse me, two decades in the future would find themselves in concentration camps on the West Coast.