In the previous slide, I mentioned that the Chinese would find themselves as laborers working in the American West. And I also unpack this interconnection between capitalist expansion, how that connects with quote unquote cheap labor, and furthermore, how that interconnects with the racial landscape of the United States historically speaking. So here I want to focus on westward expansion and how that connects to um economic expansion. And first of all I want to address this sort of misconception that many of us have about the west during the 19th century. Many of us probably have this rather romanticized if you will notion or idea of what the west was all about during the 1800s. For example, we may think of cowboys and Indians. We think about uh the west as being lawless and as being the frontier and uh a largely unpopulated, right? We even think about um um you know uh the cowboy as being these figures uh of American independence and autonomy roaming around the west, right? Okay. So, um, now I'm not saying that's a complete, uh, false idea of what the West was all about, a fabrication, but it is romanticized. And here, I want to recast our thinking about the American West. And moreover, I want to tie that in with economic expansion. Okay. So, again, what were some misconceptions about the West? Let's be more specific here. Well, one misconception was that the west was vacant of settlement. Okay. And this connects with this notion of frontier in the American imagination and American folklore like there was this uh frontier the west of us and it was just there to be settled by American frontiers persons right who were these courageous individuals going west right so again this notion of uh imagined vacancy to the west and speaking of courageous uh individuals uh a Second misconception was that the west was indeed settled uh by these pioneers, these heroic frontiers persons, men and women who explored just for the sake of exploration itself and nothing more. Okay. And again this is largely a product of our folklore. This is how we romanticize this idea of westward expansion. And the third one is that the west was entirely separate from the east. There's this wild west, if you will. And then there's the civilized east. So you think of the east as being, you know, comprised of large cities like New York, Boston, civilized, so to speak, and the west being the opposite. No large cities. In fact, as I mentioned, it's vacant and this place where cowboys and Indians roam around in complete lawlessness. Right. Okay. Okay. So, um that's the third one that the west was separate from the east as if there's this line of demarcation that separates the two. Okay. Now, again, I'm not saying all those ideas are false. Probably the one that's false, patently false, if you will, is number one, uh the notion that the West was vacant of settlement. We know that, of course, there's Native Americans that are settling in the West. uh but the second one and third one that you know there were pioneers these uh heroic frontiers persons solely responsible for the population of the west well that's partly true but what I want to say here is that westward expansion was primarily um propelled by economic expansion okay more so than those uh frontiers persons Okay, so this brings us to the modern interpretation and here's how you should really think about westward expansion during the 1800s according to historians, modern historians today. Okay, that you know this notion of American civilization starting in the east coast in the colonial period of US history and then inexraably spanning westward until we we reached the shores of the Pacific in 1890. Right. and we expanded from sea, the shining sea so to speak. that movement uh was the the consequence of um economic expansion stated otherwise westward expansion was a commercial venture and this interconnects with what I mentioned earlier about capitalist expansion and um how that geographically extends itself right to the point where today um you're going to see a Starbucks in all countries right? Uh you're going to see Nike and so forth. Uh the global extent of these industries is something you can't um deny. Well, think about that expansionist tendency of commerce in the 19th century. Think about how um industries in the United States are expanding from east to west. What is the engine of that westward expansion profit? as I described last time. So therefore, you see this happening on the continent. Uh and again, it's propelled by economic expansion. So again, westward expansion is economic expansion more so than those pioneers. Okay? And again, we don't want to say that those pioneers were not courageous and everything. Of course, they were very brave, but uh this notion of pioneers and their stage coaches is uh exaggerated, right? And if we think of westward expansion in this respect, then we have to recognize the fact that that third misconception, the idea that the west was completely separate from the east is also a falsehood. That is, you know, you have to look at this as one inexraable movement from east to west. Okay? Um there's truly no line of separation, right? It's just one movement moving from east to west. Okay. So, um this is the way you should recast your thinking again about westward expansion, right? Uh, in fact, when you think about cowboys, right, that heroic individual again, figures of American independence in the West during the 19th century, well, when you think about the term cowboy, it gives you a glimpse on what they really were there for, right? They were there to work for the cattle industry, hence the term cowboy, right? Their job was to round up the cattle uh to uh you know steer them from one ranch to another, right? That was their job. In a sense, they kind of uh to use a modern term, you know, clocked in, right? And made their wages that is capitalist, that is the market, that is commercial um activity there, you know, wage labor performed by cowboys. Okay, so this is the way you should think about it. And as noted on the slide there, the 19th century uh US West uh the was land rich yet it was labor poor. Land rich yet labor poor. There's all this land there, >> right? But where are you going to find the labor to do all that um industrial work on the factories and what have you? Okay. Well, the answer to that would be of course foreign labor. You're going to seek labor overseas as I mentioned um earlier. But here is what I want to emphasize in the west. It was comprised of different types of industries compared to the east. Of course, we think of the east, you know, we think of factories that produce garments. uh we think about uh coal mines, we think about steel, steel factories and so on so forth, meat packing, right? Specifically in Chicago. Uh but what's happening in terms of industrial output in the western regions like California and so forth. Well, it's not the afflation industries, but they are still industries. So, I want to emphasize that they are still interest industries. uh examples of western industries during the 19th century were as I mentioned cattle right um also um uh aggra business okay agra business as I'll discuss in more detail later in the course is aggra excuse me it's agriculture as big business it's the commercialization of agriculture right the food we eat so still today we know that in the west still actually right in Sanwaki Valley uh going up to Yima Valley in Washington you know there's these uh growers agricultural growers and uh typically they employ u many immigrants to pick the fruits and vegetables that we eat every day. So this is going on as early as the uh 19th century and spilling over the 20th century. Okay, aggro business is one example of a western industry. And then there's others of course fishing industry um and others but uh and coal mining I can't excuse me not coal mining um gold mining excuse me um and that is going to loom large because during the um the uh gold rush here's where the mining ind industry is going to seek foreign labor and specifically it will seek Chinese labor. Okay, when you think about it, the um gold rush of uh 1849 when that exploded and you need laborers to work for the mining corporation, are they going to go to the east coast and try to find labors from Europe, right? No, they're going to stay in the West Coast and they're going to seek labor overseas still, but they'll reach out across Asia and specifically to China to find their source of cheap labor for the mining industry. So, this is the explanation behind why the Chinese would end up uh in the West Coast. They would be a source of foreign labor to fulfill those labor needs due to labor shortage of the mining industry during uh the mid 1800s. Okay. Now, we're going to explore that in more depth with the next slide.