We now have a more accurate understanding historically speaking of what westward movement was all about. We realized the fact that this was a commercial venture. This was geographical expansion of capitalism, industrial capitalism to be specific, moving from east to west. And uh we also recognize the fact that the industries on the western tip of this movement were a bit different from the east. In fact, quite different from the east or the mid midwest for that matter. Um but they're still industries nonetheless. This is still industrial capitalism. So the cattle industry comprised of cowboys working uh as laborers, right? Um the mining industry, the aggra business industry, these are still industries. And like any other industry at this time, the industrialist sought the cheapest labor possible. So let's remember that we are labor poor at this time. And therefore the pursuit of cheap labor entailed looking abroad. And by the way this still applies today. You look abroad for the cheapest labor because it's uh cheaper for that industrialist to pay a foreign worker compared to an American worker. All right. Now uh we also realize this that are those industrialists in the west are they going to seek the cheapest labor by going all the way to the east? No, they're not. They're already at practically at the shores of the Pacific, right? So therefore going to they're going to cast their gaze westward. That is the Pacific. They're going to look at countries to the west as well as our neighbors to the south, I have to say. But when it when it came to the Chinese working on the railroad industry and the mining industry and aggra business well um much of that labor will be sought across the Pacific uh specifically the China and then later uh and we'll discuss this the Japanese and even Filipinos once um they become our colonial subjects. Again that's a topic for the future. Now before we begin to discuss the specific reason as applies to Chinese immigration uh during the 19th century, first of all we have to take a step back and analyze immigration in a general sense and this is one perspective out of several uh by which you could analyze human migration. Okay. And that involves push factors versus pull factors. And even without looking at the slide here, if you imagine the terms push factors and pull factors, you probably have an idea what those terms refer to. Uh but again, looking at the slide, right, here's the definition. A push factors are those factors shaping the migratory movements of people that are located in their place of origin in the immigrants home country so to speak. Okay. Now this could involve a host of factors or reasons. For example, uh certainly economics, right? if they're experiencing economic hardship, economic destitution, that's one factor. Political turmoil in the home country, war, um religious persecution in their home country or a combination of those factors, right? So these again are factors that uh you could almost literally imagine as pushing them out of the country, right? Uh so some examples, well think about the war in Ukraine when Russia invaded uh several years ago. Well, you see this massive movement of migration of Ukrainians uh out of the country, out of their country and certainly war was the primary push factor in that regard. Or think US history, we're familiar with the Puritans or the pilgrims, so to speak. uh they were pushed out of England uh due to a religious persecution. Okay. So that obviously involves religion. Now moving to the pool factors, those are the factors shaping migration that are located in the immigrants place of new settlement. Okay? Uh the host country so to speak. And um here is where you could analyze specific immigration. They're going to a specific destination as their choice. And you analyze why they're at that particular location, right? And again, you can almost think of this literally what's pulling them to that particular place. what what made them decide uh in their decision- making uh obviously uh to uh migrate to that particular place. Okay. And that's a cool factor. Okay. Okay. Now, um when you take these all together, they serve as a pretty good constellation of factors by which to analyze immigration, whether again contemporary immigration, certainly Chinese immigration and other forms of human migration. As noted there, it's important to consider both in the analysis of immigration. Like you know there are immigrant issues uh often in contemporary society right in our country. Well, you should analyze both uh push factors and pull factors. Take into account both to have a more um nuanced understanding of what immigration is all about. Now, it's this is not the only way to analyze human migration, push pull. In fact, we're going to introduce um if you will, the more macro perspective historically speaking, like how imperialism or globalization influences immigration, and we'll get to that uh in the future. uh but you could certainly think about push and pull factors uh in conjunction with those macro perspectives. Again, um this is a topic for a future lecture. Okay. So now that we're fully aware of what push factors and pull factors refer to, we could begin to analyze the specific case of Chinese immigration to the US West by the mid 1800s. So let's first look at some push factors that explain Chinese migration during this time. The first thing we have to recognize the fact that during the 19th century during the 1800s, China as a whole was experiencing political turmoil. Now what is behind this? Well, if you know anything about Chinese history and pro you probably heard these terms nonetheless. Uh what you had as a uh sort of institution that ruled over China during this feudal period, preodern period were dynasties, right? You may have heard the Ming dynasty, uh the uh you know theQing dynasty. Well, it's exactly theQing dynasty that was reigning China at this time uh during uh the uh 19th century. But by this time after centuries of rule, by this time it's beginning to collapse. It's experiencing dynastic decline. All right. Now again looking at the history of feudal China, the dynastic periods um each dynasty in their history went through a period of you know initial formation and then uh centuries of rule and then they decline and they collapsed only to be replaced by a new dynasty. Okay, so this is exactly what's happening with theQing dynasty. Okay, now let me give you a little background on theQing dynasty. uh theQing and the emperor, theQing emperor, they're actually not ethnic Chinese. Okay, ethnic Chinese, by the way, they refer to themselves as Han, [snorts] the Hanchinese, H A N. Okay, now uh theQing on the other hand were not Hanchinese. They're actually foreigners and they originated from the northern regions of you know um East Asia uh places that we're familiar with like it's basically around or nearby Mongolia and the northern regions but they went southward and conquered China. Okay. And took over and established their dynasty and referred to as theQing dynasty. again spelled Q I N G theQ dynasty. Uh okay. So that happened centuries before that and by again by the 1800s just like all previous dynasties they're starting to decline and as a result you see political turmoil or actually it's more accurate to say political turmoil is causing their decline. Okay. Uh so what you have here is political instability, wars happening, rebellions. You may have heard of the famous Taiping rebellion. And when I say rebellion, it's not just a small revolt. Okay. Um this actually involves millions of people dying. Okay. So again, theQing dynasty is experiencing um instability and collapse and um and uh you see wars erupt all over the place, political turmoil. And um interestingly enough, theQing dynasty would be the last dynasty in Chinese history because by it'll officially collapse in the early 1900s and after that there's no longer any dynasties, right? It's going to be actually more they're going to move out of this feudal era and into the modern era. and you will see uh now as the leader after the civil war and established the people's republic of China okay which is still existing today as you know okay so um this was a primary push factor okay why because political instability is going to cause Chinese to move out and to avoid uh all that turmoil and Um you add to that uh various uh factors that relate to um well let's just call them natural disasters, floods and famine happening at the same time as political turmoil. Okay. And this is causing economic hardship, economic um destitution uh and emisseration for many Chinese. Okay. Um also another thing that's happening is overpopulation. So when you think about overpopulation uh when the population is um growing exorbitantly but you don't have enough resources like food and so forth to feed the public. Well um this is going to lead to people being squeezed out right because there's not enough food u and that's juxtaposed against uh the growing population. Okay. So all these push factors again are leading to out migration. What academics and historians call out migration. And again um this is movement out of China to other places. But uh as noted here on this illustration, this area in red is going to be very important. This area in red is called the Guang Dong province here. All right. And when it came to out migration towards the US West by the mid 1800s, 99% of them are going to originate from this area. Now, we know that China is very big. It's huge, right? But you won't see migrants coming from other areas around China. rather they'll uh be exclusively originating from this area the Guang Dong province. In the next slide we'll discuss why this is this was the case.