Now one important thing to note here is the fact that the Chinese labors uh comprised of voluntary labor force. Okay, voluntary. And they indeed signed a contract willingly, right? Their own valition. Um and it was a set of mutual understanding between the recruiters and the recruited the labor recruits that they would journey across the Pacific and work in these western industries. And at this time I have to say the first workers would work in the mining industry uh following the gold rush of 1849. Okay. in San Francisco and the nearby areas. Okay, so they're contract workers. And why is this important to note? That's because they're not coolies as stated on here. Now, what is a Basically, a is an indentured servant. And indentured servitude is basically one step removed from actual slavery. In fact, coolies lived a slaveike existence. Now, it's not exactly equivalent to that of, let's say, African-American slavery in the South at this time. Um, Koulies were not um destined to have lifelong tenures as, you know, indentured servants, right, at this time. Nonetheless, they lived a slave-like existence for the period that they were a Kool-Aid. Okay. By the way, why is this important? And just to foreshadow what's going to um happen in the future, well eventually, as we will discuss, there's going to be this emergence of anti-Chinese sentiment that becomes very rabid uh by the 1870s and 18 um 80s. And in the propaganda to convince Americans that the Chinese should be kicked out of the country, they basically typ cast the Chinese labors as quote coolies unquote. And this happened to coincide with a period in American history that slavery was now prohibited. And as I mentioned, coolies uh were thought to be uh slavelight. So these um nivists as they call themselves in the effort to convince and persuade Americans that Chinese should be kicked out basically said there are coolies in our midst in our country. They are slaves and we don't we don't allow slavery in our country. Okay? When in fact that's uh complete propaganda. It's a complete lie. All right? But it was very effective I should say, right? in convincing Americans to support uh the expulsion of the Chinese. Now, another thing that's important here is that they were sojourners as stated here. So, what is a sojourer? A sojourer uh back then is a person who journeyied beyond his and I say his because most of them practically all of them were men. uh his or her if there was an exception, right? Um his or her um home village or hometown to work at a distant location only to return to the hometown. So it's almost like you know a circular motion in their work life. Right now this doesn't sound unusual to us today because many people you know journey outside their hometown, their home city. Um it's so common that relocation is just a fact of economic life today in our advanced uh capitalist system. Some of us even move out of the country just for work. Okay. But back then it was certainly the exception to the rule. it was not typically the case that uh people worked outside their home uh towns. Okay. So that's why you see an actual word to describe them sojourning or sojourners. So a person who was sojourer again left the home village. By the way, here's an interesting fact about uh just the experience of people back then. If you were a typical peasant farmer, especially, I mean, not the wealthy elite, but the peasant farmer, which practically all people were back then, uh, in the um feudal context, you typically migrated uh beyond five miles of your place of birth. Okay? So, you don't see massive movement, massive migration. you know today uh just on our way to work we get on the freeway many of us right and we journey miles away so uh back then it was very static in terms of human movement okay so now you could understand that sojouring was an exception to rule and when you think about the Chinese oh yeah there's certainly sojourning across the Pacific right to go to the US west in fact this is a dramatic instance of this sojurning experience from the Chinese perspective in the 19th century. Okay, so this is important to note that they're sojourers. Why? Because sojurning as I described earlier meant that eventually after you make your money abroad, you would eventually return to your home village or your hometown or your home city. The expectation of permanently settling in that place that you migrate to to make your money is not there. Okay? You're not planning on settling in that area. So your movement is more of a circular movement in terms of your migratory movement that's entailed with work, right? as opposed to uh the typical European immigrant arriving during the industrial revolution in our country's history. And they were coming from areas in the Mediterranean Mediterranean, excuse me, like Italy, like Greece, certainly from Eastern Europe, Polish and Ukrainians, Russians, what have you. uh and they're migrating across the Atlantic in this case arriving at the Statue of Liberty, right? And Ellis Island. Now, their trajectory is for the most part linear, not circular, okay? Cuz they are not sojourners for the most part. There there's maybe some exceptions there, right? that plans just to go back and forth. But most of the European immigrants plan on permanently settling in the United States, in New York City, in Chicago, in Boston, in other big industrial cities at that time. and they would go there and form their respective ethnic neighborhoods like um you know the Italian neighborhood in New York, the Irish neighborhood, uh the Jewish neighborhood right that we are familiar with still today in these uh large immigrant cities. Now think about that in terms of the Chinese immigrant experience because they are sojourners compared to those European immigrants. You won't see these really large uh ethnic Chinese communities. Sure, you'll see Chinatown in San Francisco. Okay? But you have to remember that Chinatown was uh in comparative terms smaller than those ethnic neighborhoods we see in New York or Chicago. All right? Uh back then it comprised you know a block or two. All right? Okay. So uh the immigrant experience because they're sojourners uh especially with the Chinese um it is qualitatively different from other immigrants especially European immigrants at that time. Now future uh Asian immigrants will not uh be sojenters to the extent that this initial wave of Chinese were. Okay, sojeners. But we have to remember that distinction because it's important when we think about the Chinese American experience. Now another thing we have to take note of here is the third line and it's the fact that the Chinese were indeed a gendered labor force and specifically this labor force was comprised of only male laborers. By the way I'm not saying that there's no Chinese women migrating to the US west. We'll discuss this in a future uh lecture topic. But especially when you compare to the numbers of Chinese men coming over, there's hardly any women coming over. Okay. So why was this the case? Why was the Chinese labor force at this time a gendered labor force? It's because from the perspective of the American recruiters in Guang Dong province, well, they felt that only men could perform this type of labor intensive work in the mining industry and eventually in the railroad industry and aggro business. So men were the preferred labor force here because of the demands the physical demands and based on prevalent um gender beliefs and gender ideology back then women were simply incapable of performing this type of tasks. Okay. So again this is 19th century gender beliefs. Men could only do this type of work. Therefore, they recruited solely male laborers. Now, when you think about this put together with the fact that they're sojourners. Okay. What does that mean in terms of settlement let alone you know uh getting married, forming a family and there therefore forming communities. Okay. So you can see how gender and the fact that they're sojuners that is they're expected to return. Well, this is going to uh wield an enormous influence in shaping um the Chinese American experience in the US West, especially when we compare it to the counterparts coming from Europe, right? And I say counterpart because you know the Europeans were coming over also as laborers to work in the factories. So we could imagine quite readily how the Chinese experience will be in contrast to the European experience because um well first of all we have to imagine that you know there's whole families coming from Europe across the Atlantic right with the Chinese there's no families they're bringing with them they're not bringing their wives because that was not allowed in the contract they could not bring any um uh women. All right? So, it's exclusively men. And also at this time, there's such a thing as anti-misogenation laws, which we'll discuss in the future. But anti-misogenation laws basically prohibits legally intermarriage or just even sexual relations between the races. And of course, that includes persons of Asian descent back then. So really um there's no chance or hardly any chance for that typical at least that typical laborer to get married and form a family in the United States and add to that that they're sojourers in the first place. Okay. So again the immigrant history is going to be so different than uh other immigrant histories happening at this time.