So after a two-eek journey from the Guang Dong province to San Francisco, you see the first Chinese arriving to San Francisco in 1849. And their arrival attracted widespread attention in the west. Here was an immigrant group. Different of course racially in their appearance, but certainly in their cultural expression like clothing, their social ways, their language, not to mention the sheer distance from home. All of these factors set them dramatically apart from, let's say, European immigrants because they're coming from the other side of the world. And indeed when they arrived, it aroused the curiosity of many Americans at that time. In fact, I'm going to read here a passage from a journalist writing for this uh early California newspaper called the Daily Alta. And he witnessed the first arrival of the Chinese in San Francisco during this time. So here's what he wrote down. quote, "They stood in silent wonder at the new land before them, and then after all the passengers had left, the living stream of the bluecoated men of Asia began to disembark. The Chinese men, all of them with unusual and highly visible Manchu imposed hairstyle of shaved paint and Q hanging down to the waist. Poured down a plank with long bamboo poles across their shoulder from which depend packages of bedding, matting, clothing, and things of which we know neither the names nor the uses. They appear to be of an average age of 25 years, very few being under 15, and none apparently over 40 years, and those somewhat less in stature than Caucasians, healthy, active, and able-bodied to a man," unquote. Okay, so here's a journalist again, an eyewitness to the first Chinese coming over. And it's important to note this, they're not really greeted with hostility uh and hatred. This is going to erupt later in the history of these Chinese to the west. This will especially gain traction by the 1870s, 1880s where this widespread anti-Chinese movement would erupt. But initially, no. Um they're greeted with curiosity and interest. Um now most of them would coming over would be indeed laborers but there will be a small number of merchants as well accompanying the um laborers and some of these merchants are even going to bring their wives. And also um arriving to the US west would be a small number of women prostitutes um from China. So these really are the types of Chinese coming over. But again, overwhelmingly the migratory waves here characterizing Chinese immigration is that of Chinese labors, male labors, men. Okay. So yeah, the merchant class, by the way, well, they're going to sell various goods and commodities to the Chinese as they settle in the United States. Um they open stores which makes it possible for these Chinese immigrants to be surrounded by all the essential and u familiar items of their material culture at home. And indeed such merchants became the wealthiest members of the Chinese settling in the US. Well not settling for good right but um just settling there um uh temporarily. And indeed the merchant class would become the most important leaders of the community especially as Chinatown uh begins to form. Now speaking of Chinatown, you know, they arrive here and as they again disembark uh the city itself, San Francisco basically uh put aside this area along with some of the uh businessmen in San Francisco. um they set aside an area whereby the Chinese could settle and this would of course form as Chinatown in San Francisco. Many of you have probably visited Chinatown in San Francisco and still today it's of course the oldest Chinat town in North America. So again, this was uh deed by the city government and business owners and property owners uh to settle the Chinese and and for the merchants to open shop. Now when we look at population numbers at first, you have you know the first ships coming over, but you know you need that cheap labor and you have the Chinese willing and able to do this to uh serve as this cheap labor force. Let me remind you again, they're paid less than half the American worker. But just a few years later in 1851, uh according to uh some um who were keeping count of the Chinese immigrants, you have roughly 12,000 men by 1851 and less than 10 women. So this is a highly skewed uh gender ratio. uh a gender imbalance, right? 12,000 men to 10 women. And again, um as I mentioned previously, you could imagine the effect that would have on family formation, on community formation, you know, even if they weren't solders, right? If they decided to settle, well, um how could that even happen given that imbalance? All right. So what happens? Um they begin to settle in San Francisco. Of course they're there because of the gold rush, but eventually the gold rush dies down as the supply of gold dwindles and therefore you have the presence of tens of thousands of Chinese miners by the end of the 1850s and they're searching for new employment prospects. Now some of them would go into the field of aggra business which we'll discuss in a second and well let me just tell you that aggraus is agriculture as big business. All right. Um this is the commercialization of the food we eat. That's something we take for granted today by the way. You know today we know that the market intervenes uh between us and the food we eat. when we get hungry, we have to encounter a market, whether it's Ralph's uh restaurant, a drive-thru, or what have you. Okay? And that's opposed to the pre-market era where you had, you know, family farms, they grew it in their backyard and they slaughter chickens and everything, right? We don't do that, most of us. Okay? But, uh, the u development in, um, capitalism was such that food gets commodified by big business. Hence agriculture and agra business and you know today when you think about agra business there's still that uh practice of hiring mostly foreign labor because they are underpaid compared to the American worker. Not only that American workers would rather not work that type of job. So the owners of aggra business tend to hire uh immigrant laborers if not undocumented migrants who get paid sometimes even less than immigrant laborers right who are here legally in any case that's aggra business and again some Chinese went into that we'll discuss the Japanese later who would replace the Chinese and they would definitely be u they would gravitate towards aggra But the particular industry that the Chinese would end up in with the dwindling of the gold rush would be the railroad industry, right? And again, this is a western industry. These are the industries of the west. And at this time in the 1850s, the development of a transcontinental railroad was a major project that was subsidized even by the federal government. This was deemed to be a very important national project that is going to unite the United the continent of the United States, right? Excuse me, in a continental sense that is um you know moving from east coast to west coast. So um this construction of the railroad, the transcontinental railroad begins before the civil war in the 1850s and let's remember it's the Chinese that are there during this period. So a bill gets passed by Congress to complete this at this time and uh there's this interruption of course with civil war but right after civil war you'll see the first completion of the railroad or the first example of uh a transcontinental railroad company successfully building this by 1869. Okay. And again, I can't overstate the importance of the railroad in US history, not just economic history, but just history in general. It was a major technological innovation. Um, it's it's analogous to today's uh innovations and technology like um let's say computers or the internet. Okay, for us today, we think of the railroad and we think it's rather quaint. But back then, if you happen to be alive, it was just mind-blowing what the railroad could do, right? We're talking about uninterrupted flow of people, of laborers for that matter, right? Of material, of capital, of commodities, of information going back and forth from east to west. Now, um, who would serve as the labor force here? Well, there's different, uh, railroad companies here that are competing with each other. And the particular railroad company that would end up hiring Chinese laborers, well, they they were called the Central Pacific Railroad Company. The Central Pacific Railroad Company. And as we'll discuss in the next slide, the hiring of Chinese labor was at first debated for a very specific cultural, ideological, and racial reasons. Okay? And we'll talk about that concept next.