As previously mentioned, there was some debate among the industrialists of the railroad companies as to whether or not the Chinese could actually perform the type of labor necessary to build the transcontinental railroad spanning the east coast and the west coast of the country. Let's remember that this became a national project um by the end of the civil war in 1865. And where did this debate uh emerge from? First of all, the industrialists were thinking about the nature of labor necessary to build this tremendous project. Uh you needed to of course lay down the tracks, but you also needed to clear a lot of land. Uh you needed to build bridges and so on so forth. um lots of labor and very intensive labor. Again, uh now it was felt that the Chinese could not do this because they were physically um unable to do it that they lack the physical constitution in physical terms of course uh to build this. Where did this come from? Well, it stems from this ideology known as orientalism. Of course this is a academic word today. Okay. Uh that is invented to describe this ideology back then. Okay. So what is orientalism? As mentioned, it's an ideology that actually emerged during the age of European imperialism when the you had these various European empire empires going out and colonizing uh various parts of the world and um in that process they encounter different types of races and in particular geographically they go to Asia and the Middle East okay because that counts as quote oriental and they notice there's there's you know different civilizations s uh that are so um different from western civilizations. For example, the language uh sounded so different, the handwriting was so different. um architecture, clothing, gender roles, um economics, religion was so different from Christianity and so on so forth to the point where many Westerners, many Europeans and Americans felt that you know there's this fundamental opposition between both sides uh of the world. Okay. So um this recognition gave rise to the world being uh split into two parts. That's the oriental world and it's different and opposed to really the accidental world. Of course the accidental world uh is the term describing uh European civilization and and American civilization broadly construed as western civilization. Okay. In fact, you could think of orientalism as a distinction between the east and the west. All right? So, the two worlds it was felt could not meet because they're so fundamentally different and opposed to each other. Now, a coral corollary, excuse me, to that um belief was that you can't take that oriental person out of that oriental world, place him or her in the accidental world or the western world and expect that person to be completely uh westernized or assimilated to the western world. And likewise uh the opposite was true as well. You can't take that westerner or that accidental person, place him and her uh in the oriental world and expect them to be quote orientalized. Okay, it was deemed to be inconceivable back then. And again, it's because of this belief in the fundamental difference between both worlds. Of course, we know that's absurd today. You know, Asian-Americans today are completely assimilated, right, and westernized. Many of them are including myself. Okay. But this was the prevalent belief that was attached to orientalism. Now, how does that apply to uh let's say uh the Chinese workers, right? Well, another offshoot of orientalism spilled over to gender stereotypes. Okay. And oh, let me go back to perpetual foreigner. Okay. Here is this idea that because you cannot uh expect that oriental person to enter the accidental world and be assimilated. They are deemed to be perpetual foreigners, right? They can't assimilate. They can't westernize. They can't acculturate to western culture, western values, the western outlook. Therefore, they're deemed to be forever outside the country. whatever western country we're talking about, USA or England or what have you, right? They're perpetually foreign. And by the way, we'll talk about how this relates to the Chinese being denied citizenship in the United States because of this prevailing attitude that persons of Asian descent were indeed perpetual foreigners. They can't assimilate, therefore they can't be extended citizenship. Okay, so going back to uh gender roles here. Uh another offshoot besides the perpetual foreigner uh status that was ascribed to persons of Asian descent. Um another way they were um essentialized was according to gender. It was felt that oriental men were essentially weak, that they were lazy, that they lacked manliness or masculinity, and therefore um they were deemed to be inferior to western men or accidental males. Okay. And by the way, what about oriental women, so to speak? Well, they were essentialized as being um submissive uh that they should be dominated therefore and also um this interesting complex besides being submissive but also being essentially prostitut. And we'll talk about that later when we see uh some of this uh discussion about Chinese prostitutes in the West Coast very soon. Okay. So going back to the gendered stereotypes about oriental men so to speak because they were deemed to be essentially weak and lazy and incapable of performing this type of labor. Um some argued that they should not be chosen as the labor force to perform this labor. Now let's remember what's at stake here with these industrialists of the Central Pacific Railroad. if they go with the Chinese, they know they could uh pay them less than half the wages of an American worker. So they would save so much money uh in terms of you know expense, labor expense and that would augment their profit. So you know it's a very compelling argument to go for the Chinese. Yet on the other hand, what if they can't perform the labor? And indeed, uh, some who were arguing the case for hiring the Chinese, he said, hey, let's remember the Chinese built the greatest wall known to man, right? And I'm paraphrasing that, the greatest wall known to man. Of course, talking about the Great Wall of China. Okay, so I guess in this case, profit overrode all other concerns related to gender stereotypes. And indeed the Central Pacific Railroad decided to go with Chinese labor. So at the peak you see 12,000 Chinese men working for the Central Pacific Railroad doing this labor intensive work that uh as I mentioned earlier is a very important technological accomplishment in US history. Okay. It was the Chinese labor that performed this crucial um technological feat. So this occurred in 1869 with a famous event that marked the completion of a railroad track that happened to occur geographically at Promonary Point in Utah. Okay. And this is a famous photograph. Of course, um the leaders of this uh corporation, the railroad company, and I'm guessing it's these guys here, right? They knew they had to memorialize this event. So, they had a photograph taken here. But let's remember that uh almost all of the workers are Chinese laborers who do this. And before the photograph was taken, they directed all the Chinese to leave out of the frame of the photograph. Okay? They were forced to get out out of the frame and watch by the margins. In the meantime, they filled in the photograph with non-Chinese Caucasians, right? Obviously, and they took this famous photograph that again um memorialized this event. Okay. So to me uh this demonstrates something that's um quite telling that in the history of not the Chinese or Asians in particular but I think ethnic groups in general that uh you see in the historical narrative of the United States many ethnic groups and their accomplishments being erased from the historical record. Okay. But when you write national histories and back in the day, especially when you didn't feel that, you know, ethnic histories really mattered, that they did not deserve to be chronicled within, you know, the chapters of our history books. Well, you didn't include them, right? You didn't include the history of African-Americans, the history of Asian-Americans. In fact, you deliberately left them out. Okay? So, this is historical eraser what's happening here. And indeed it's captured in this very photograph. So this photograph as I mentioned is telling right it's um Adam braiding how Asians in the future as well as you know re replaying in the past right the eraser of ethnic histories but it's certainly uh foreshadowing how even in the future after 1869 um Asian histories as well as other ethnic histories will not count Right. And Asians in general will be um denied national belonging and we'll talk about that in terms of citizenship very soon. Now with the end of the Civil War in 1865, you see the resumption of westward movement of American settlers and even immigrant uh settlers who uh arrive in the United States on the east coast, right? They start moving west and they're eventually going to get to the west coast and of course they're going to seek work. But what are they going to encounter there? They're going to encounter different types of uh ethnic laborers that are working for less than the American worker. And of course, the Chinese have to be counted among them. In fact, the Chinese are likely the most exploited ethnic group on the West Coast being paid less than half the wages of an American worker. So, how are American workers, let's say, you know, migrant workers, right, uh, moving to the West Coast, how are they going to find work if the employers are paying Chinese workers less than half, right? This obviously undercuts the American workers capacity to negotiate fair wages with employers. But rather than blame the employers for this practice, they're going to fix their blame towards the Chinese. They're going to blame them, you know, it's the root of the problem, the Chinese accepting that labor uh less than half. Okay? when in fact as we know they signed a contract in Guangdong province right and moreover they're sojourners they're not there to settle permanently they plan to go back right therefore they're not thinking about settling in the United States and you know um that amount of money uh is fine with them right because it's much more than they make in China okay so uh again American workers see the Chinese as labor competition and the root root cause of driving down wages and this is going to lead to this movement of anti-Chinese sentiment uh that will spread throughout the west coast. Okay. And uh the slogan here was the Chinese must go. All right. And here are some depictions. By the way, you know, besides working on the railroad, besides working in aggra business and of course mining, another uh niche, if you will, economically was Chinese work working as uh laundry men to wash clothes of, you know, laborers in the west coast. And um here it shows two Chinese, you know, laundry men being kicked out, right? The Chinese must go. And this guy too. Okay. So, uh this is what happens by the 1870s and it reaches a culmination you know high point by the 1880s and again uh the source of this is largely economic but it would also encompass cultural and ideological uh dimensions that we recognize as orientalism. So let's see how those two that is to say economics and orientalism intersect in this movement to purge the Chinese from the west coast.