Last time we left off with this notion of anti-Chinese sentiment uh beginning to gain traction in the West Coast. Let's remember that when the first Chinese came over, if you recall, they were greeted with uh favorable opinion. Okay, they were not necessarily looked at scornfully. But now it's being reversed and that's as we acknowledge due to tension among you know the the working class and specifically you have labor unions and they're comprised of white workers right white labor unions um basically u blaming the Chinese for lack of work right and the fact that employers are hiring them due to cheap labor and then the the unions began to join hands with political leaders. And this makes sense because if you think about it, politicians who are eager to win votes from white labor um they have to uh cater to them and therefore they turn this issue of anti-Chinese sentiment into a political issue. And by the way, this became known as the so-called Chinese question, right? the Chinese question. The Chinese question revolved around the issue of uh Chinese labor competition um leading to unfair wages and therefore that the Chinese should be kicked out of the United States. Now this economic dimension of course is going to intersect with cultural dimensions and here you see the racialization of the Chinese and again it largely stems from what we called orientalism. All right and here is one representation of the Chinese as quote yellow peril. Okay. So look at for example uh this representation uh shows the Chinese person here and he's depicted as having these tentacles right and if you look at these various uh things here that's um being attached to the Chinese cheap labor okay that's economic uh immorality okay and specifically it shows women here but the whole idea was that because there are prostitutes Chinese prostitutes in the west coast and we don't see any other type of women for the most part. Maybe some merchant wives but that's it. Well, what was uh um typ cast in ter and applied towards the Chinese women was that they were all prostitute-like. It was an inherent, if you will, tendency that Chinese were depraved and um therefore they they um pose this uh moral threat to American society, right? In fact, they might um um lead to the moral degeneration of American women. Okay? As depicted here. Of course, you have uh exotic diseases that the Chinese supposedly are uh bringing over from China, right? Small pox and typhoid, opium, right? Drugs, right? That uh is going to lead again to moral um decay of US society to the spread of opium, the practice of uh opium, opium uh smoking, bribery, right? um corruption in other words, customs robbery. These I believe are gambling here, Fanten and this right here. So again, that's a more corruption, right? So this whole idea of the yellow peril, not only uh was about cheap labor, not only about let's say immorality, right? But also about the uh the moral decay to use my earlier uh term of the nations. Should the Chinese uh extend their presence in the United States? So again, uh this is how the Chinese were represented by the anti-Chinese movement. This is what uh gains traction by the 1870s, this notion of yellow peril. And here's another depiction where Chinese is seen as a threat to American womanhood, right? And here he's seen as someone who's destructive here, right? and um prone towards violence. And again, what's at threat here is um the safety of American women. This is a very effective way to u propagandize this movement of anti-Chinese sentiment. And in fact, it was very effective. Oh, and another thing they did is call all Chinese coolies. Okay, now we know this. The Chinese are not coolies. They're not indentured servants as we acknowledged earlier. Rather, they're voluntary contract workers. And the context for this was post civil war, right? Civil war was fought to eliminate slavery. And after 1865, we didn't want any slaves uh present in our country. But supposedly the Chinese were indeed this uh slave-like race of coolies uh living on the west coast and therefore they should be exterminated. They should be um you know kicked out of the country because we don't like slaves in our country. So that's another effective way uh that propaganda was um utilized to galvanize public opinion against the Chinese. So um again like I said you had um unions um basically um getting together with politicians and even though this is a west coast issue it would actually spread all the way to the east coast. Okay, even though there's no Chinese on the east coast, but that's how strong this movement became. You know, the political question of the the Chinese, the Chinese question and the slogan, the Chinese must go and we need to save the nation from quote yellow peril. By the way, vestigages of this arose uh like especially this small pox and others um in the wake of the co 19 epidemic. Now what we'll do is look at a series of anti-Chinese legislation that occurred during the 19th century. And some of this stretches back to the 1850s. If you recall, the Chinese first came in 1849. And just a few years after their arrival, you see some legislation fashioned that were specifically aimed towards the Chinese. Uh the first one being the foreign miners tax that's applied to the gold rush, hence miners, right? And basically for those independent miners, the Chinese uh miners uh during that time, uh if they were um mining for gold, well, they were um levied a particular tax called the foreign miners tax. Even though the word foreign seems generic, uh it only applied really towards the Chinese. And it was a quite a significant tax. Okay? And for those who uh tried to escape the tax to evade taxation, well, they sent tax collectors after them and um you know uh used various methods to um track them down and everything. So um again it was unfair um because it was aimed only towards the Chinese while in fact there were other foreign miners there. And then you had the case called People versus Hall in 1854. And this is a court case that occurred in California and it involved a Chinese person who was killed, who was murdered by a white person. And there were some witnesses to this murder, but those witnesses were Chinese. So basically the Supreme Court of California uh um proclaimed that the Chinese cannot testify in court against a white person. Okay. So uh this inability to testify against white people basically meant uh in the long run that the Chinese have no real legal protection, right? because they can't testify against any injustices or any crimes committed against them uh while they were in California. So that's the People versus Hall case. And then you had the Page Act 1875. And let's recall that uh there are very few number of Chinese women coming over and the uh the very small number that actually arose in the United States, well, they were predominantly prostitutes. Sure, there were some merchant wives, but most of the women coming over were uh part of this illicit uh sex trade system of prostitution. Now because of this as I previously described um it was assumed by people back then that when it came to Chinese women and remember this part of orientalism when it came to Chinese women well they're inherently prostitutike that Chinese women are morally debased and therefore the government should deny entry of all Chinese women uh to the United States. So this is what the page act did. Okay. Prohibited immigration of Chinese women. Now it's an interesting gendered law here, right? Excluding one gender from immigration. And by the way, you know, this is a period in US history where so many immigrants are coming from Europe, specifically from Eastern Europe and southern Europe, places like Italy and Russia and Ukraine and Poland and uh Greece and so forth. But they don't have to deal with any type of exclusion of women and therefore you have you know whole families coming over and you have uh the formation of family and community but now with the page act in the books that's being denied for uh the Chinese immigrants. Now the culmination of this would be the Chinese exclusion act of 1882. And like I said, this whole Chinese um um the whole Chinese must go right movement uh started in the west coast, but it's spread across the entire country to the point where even in the east coast um Washington DC and you know the uh executive at the time uh Chester Arthur actually supports a law that excludes all Chinese from entry into the United states. Okay. And if you notice the slide here, the United 1882 Chinese Exclusion Act is the first and only US immigration law that specifically designates particular ethnic, racial, and national group for exclusion from immigration to the US. A corlary to the 1882 exclusion act would be this particular legal category that was created uh to apply to the Chinese and later on to other Asians who happen to arrive after the Chinese. And this is called aliens ineligible for citizenship. Okay. And let's remember orientalism because it looms large here. Orientalism holds on to the belief that um persons of Asian descent or Orientals can never truly assimilate to the United States never truly be westernized. Therefore, they cannot truly belong and by extension they should not be given citizenship. Okay. So again, orientalism they're seen as forever foreigners, perpetual aliens, right? Perpetual foreigners. And if they are indeed aliens um they should not be extended citizenship. So this is what was uh provision added. This was a provision added to the 1882 exclusion act that the Chinese cannot be conferred citizenship. Now as we may be aware of there was already such a thing as the 14th amendment which guaranteed citizenship as a birthright, right? Birthright citizenship. Well, this was denied to all Chinese who happen to be born on US soil. Okay, this was denied through exactly this legal category. Aliens ineligible for citizenship. Okay, and just to let you know, this won't be entirely extinguished until 1952. Okay, it will be in the law books for quite a while. But obviously the ramifications in terms of assimilation, national belonging and settlement are clear here. The Chinese at this point are denied national belonging through citizenship. Therefore, what does that mean in terms of again family formation, permanent settlement, community formation, so forth, right? It means that they're forever seen as outside the nation. They're relegated to the margins. Right? Just like that uh photograph that we talked about with the railroad, they are relegated to the margins. They're out of the picture, right? And here legally, you could see how that's being instantiated.