Before we proceed with a discussion of other examples of anti-Chinese legislation that followed the 1882 Chinese Exclusion Act, one thing we have to take notice here is that economics and nivism as an ideology are interlocked here during this period of anti-Chinese um ideology. Right? So we have yet to engage with this term called nivism. So what does this refer to? Well, in the most basic sense, nivism refers to a particular outlook or ideology that a country holds uh whereby uh prioritization should be conferred upon those who are nativeorn over let's say immigrants. Okay. Now, it's a specific type of nivism at play here, namely economic nivism. And here's a case whereby, you know, again, priority should be uh given to um native laborers over immigrant laborers, right? Especially during times of economic downturn when jobs become more scarce. Now uh this is interesting though because as we know from the um capitalist point of view they prefer to hire foreign labor not American labor and we know the reason why it's due to cheap labor which is connected to um profit. The more uh profit that you want the more cutting of cost you want to do on your labor and foreign labor is the answer to that. So as we'll discuss this is a fundamental tension in US history but I just wanted to bring attention to this notion that nivism is a very important factor here and to be specific economic nivism. Okay. Uh you can think of nivism also in a general sense of being anti-immigrant. Okay. Any sort of anti-immigrant sentiment that uh certain um fraction of the population may hold. Right. uh that could be described as nivism. Now we had discussed how the 1882 Chinese exclusion act was in a way uh the cumulative effect of all this anti-Chinese sentiment and um of course uh what was added as a provision to that law was this legal category of Asians being quote aliens ineligible for citizenship. Even though at this point it applied only to the Chinese because they were the only Asians in the United States in significant number that is uh so it applied uh really to the Chinese during the 1882 later it would apply to other Asians. All right. But six years later after the passage of the 1882 Exclusion Act, you see the Scott Act being passed by um the government and let's remember that um many of the Chinese most of them actually were sojourners. That is they went home to China and should they decide to return to the United States and make more money well of course they know that Western industries want them to come back right because of cheap labor. Some of them indeed made several trips back and forth. Now with the passage of the 1882 Exclusion Act, the question that arose was um could the sojers reimigrate to the United States? Now many assumed Chinese laborers that is many assumed that it'd be no problem after the 1882 act. And indeed um you see uh them actually journeying across the Pacific and um saying hey we're exempt from the 1882 exclusion act. So um with full knowledge of what was happening Congress decided to pass the Scott Act. Basically this prohibited the Chinese from reentering the United States after a temporary departure. So obviously this applies to those to those soldiering um Chinese labors, right? And this would be very effective in cutting uh the immigrant numbers of Chinese to the United States. Now the lifespan of the 1882 Chinese Exclusion Act was only for 10 years, one decade. So in other words, Congress had to reconvene and decide whether or not to extend the life of the Chinese Exclusion Act. So sure enough, in 1892, they decided that yes, the Chinese Exclusion Act should be extended for still another 10 years. And this is the Giri Act. And by the way, you know, 10 years hence in 1902, they actually realized they'd have to reconvene again. And you know in 1902 they just made it permanent. Chinese Exclusion became permanent. All right. When would it be uh overturned the Chinese Exclusion Act? Well, it wouldn't be until 1943. If you know anything about the 1940s, uh this was the decade, the first half of it at least, was the decade where the United States was involved in World War II. And if you know anything about that conflict on the Pacific region, uh the Pacific theater so to speak, well, China was our ally and we were both fighting against the Japanese Empire. So, uh it was sort of a a uh blemish right in our diplomatic relationship that here we are allied to China yet we prohibited them from coming into United States. So therefore you see uh the overturning of the 1882 exclusion act in 1943. Now one thing we have to acknowledge here is in the face of all this oppression and anti-Chinese legislation one thing I didn't mention yet is the amount of racial violence that the Chinese faced. Okay? There were racial riots, uh, Chinese being killed by, uh, angry nivist, um, and so on so forth. Um, did the Chinese, however, just sit on their hands, so to speak, and, uh, were they just passive recipients of all this oppression? And needless to say, the answer is absolutely not. All right. So this brings us to this concept that academics talk about and it's known as agency here and agency refers as mentioned on the slide uh to a philosophical doctrine holding that individuals possess the ability to shape the outcome of their lives. Okay. In other words, uh people uh have the capacity to actually affect their own life course, how it evolves. And then indeed you could apply agency to a whole group of people, right? Whether a national group, an ethnic group, religious group, right? So you speak about how um agency could be exercised by this particular group to combat and to resist oppression. Right? Now one thing that agency does uh assume here is the existence of free will. Right? In other words, it is hard to imagine how full agency could be exercised by let's say a person who is enslaved, right? If they don't have free will, then it's hard to imagine how they could actually shape their life course, the the path or their trajectory of their lives. Right now, there is such a thing as, by the way, slave agency, but that's outside uh the u the uh scope of this class, right? But nonetheless, uh it does for the most part presume the existence of free will, agency. Another thing that agency uh tends to emphasize or deemphasize, I actually say is external factors like one's environment, one's society, one's religion, so forth. It's saying that you could overcome those factors uh structural factors, environmental factors and exercise your agency. So it's kind of a debate here especially among academics. Um they debate whether or not um agency can be truly exercised amid let's say structural factors that uh may serve as obstacles to the expression of agency. Right? Okay. Now, how does this apply to the Chinese? Well, yeah, they did resist. They did exercise their agency in the face of all this oppression. Uh here are some examples. Uh there was numerous riots that occurred as I mentioned, but one well-known one was the Rock Springs riot uh which uh occurred in a mining camp and where he had dozens of Chinese killed uh by uh American miners uh because of the economic competition. And what did the Chinese do? They didn't just remain silent. They actually protested not in the form of actual you know uh let's say marching down the street right like we know today but they wrote letters uh to the president of the United States to the government uh trying to uh make people aware of what they just endured and certainly it was you know uh murder that happened right like I said dozens were killed um so that's them actually exercising their agency same Chanping where he challenges the Scott. He was actually a sojourer and he decided to come back and when he was turned away in San Francisco he said no wait a minute I'm going to challenge this. So he actually pursued this in the American uh court system, right? So that shows how he was willing to engage in uh you know this form of resistance by taking it to court so to speak. Now he didn't succeed because we know the Scott Act was actually effective but nonetheless uh it's an example of uh the exercise of agency. Uh now another case is the Wong Kim R case and this challenge that provision which we talked about aliens ineligible for citizenship. Now Wankar was actually born in the United States, right? He was a second generation Chinese American. And of course he fully understood that the 14th amendment was passed that uh legally um guaranteed citizenship for all those born on US soil just like he was. So he challenged this and it went all the way to the Supreme Court. It went through the entire court system from local to federal to the highest court of the land. And in 1898, the Supreme Court decided that Wing Wong Ka, excuse me, was indeed correct. They agreed with Wanka Mark that, you know, persons of Chinese descent born on US soil should indeed inherit citizenship as a birthright. So there we go. There's a successful example of Chinese agency. Now, by the way, I have to mention this to Wank Mark. It's important to know this. Does that mean that those immigrants who were not born on US soil um were they allowed to pursue citizenship? The answer still is no. In other words, aliens ineligible for citizenship here was not completely nullified. It wouldn't be nullified until 1952. Okay? Okay. So it'll be a long time quite a few decades pass before this was uh completely uh nullified but nonetheless those who were born on US soil were now given the right of citizenship. So with the passage of the 1882 exclusion act combined with the Giri Act and Scott Act well that meant that Chinese immigration uh which was a significant stream now trickled down to barely anything. Now there were some Chinese that were excluded from the 1882 exclusion act namely uh travelers, students, diplomats and merchants by the way. All right. But uh in terms of immigrant labor that was the main target of this law and indeed successful successfully uh prevented the further migration of uh that group. This all brings us to a fundamental tension we see in US history and that's the contradiction between the particular economic needs at that particular historical moment versus the political needs at that particular uh period. Okay. Um usually in this case um it's between cheap labor versus nivism, right? uh or versus the preservation the desire to maintain uh racial homogeneity. So by the 1880s for the Chinese at least here were the Chinese that not only served as a threat to the American labor uh that they were blamed for you know driving down wages but also this need um that was political this need to maintain the whiteness of the United States uh to prevent other types of different racial groups different you skin color, right? Race uh from coming over to the country and it meant exclusion from citizenship as we know with aliens ineligible for citizenship and finally with immigration itself. So this is a story of exclusion right uh that should be readily apparent to everyone.