So we're continuing with our discussion of this overarching theme here which is the interconnection between capitalist expansion labor and to be particular cheap labor and how race is involved. That is to say the search for labor abroad which means the introduction of different uh racial groups within the country. And we just left behind the Chinese experience as immigrant labor. And uh due to the um Chinese question, as it was called, the Chinese were uh to use our word purged from the west coast by the 1880s. Yet at the same time, you still see Western industrialists in need of cheap labor. And um just to let you know, of course they're going to seek it to our neighbor south of us, you know, Mexico, but not only there, they'll still set their sights to the Pacific region, and they will come across Japan, and it'll be the Japanese uh that will replace the Chinese as immigrant labor after the 1882 Chinese Exclusion Act. But as we'll see similarly, they're going to be um included as part of this labor force yet excluded in terms of true national belonging. So the Asian-American experience at this time was one of simultaneous inclusion and exclusion. Okay, they're being included as cheap labor yet also excluded in terms of national belonging, especially citizenship. So we could see here it's this strange dichotomy right and let's come up with a term for that. Uh the term that academics have used is uh differential inclusion. Okay so there's a term you should take note of differential inclusion and refers to that state of you know uh this simultaneous belonging yet not belonging. And another way to think about differential inclusion uh is this idea that Asians are needed yet not wanted. They're needed for that cheap labor especially from the capitalist point of view yet they're not wanted as part of the nation uh in racial terms uh and of course that implies citizenship back then. Okay. So uh this is interesting um state of affairs that's faced by persons of Asian descent. All right. So uh the Japanese are going to arrive as a replacement labor. So it brings us to the question and here we uh invoke some of the terms we encountered before. What were the push and pull factors that led to Japanese migration to the US west as a replacement force? Okay. So, uh the push factors are mentioned here. First thing we have to acknowledge is an important historical event that is um happening in Japan. In fact, it's such a seismic event. Okay. uh such that um you know Japanese society is being turned uh upside down. What is this? It's called the Maji restoration. And what's happening here is first of all let me give a little background. Japan uh was usually isolationist in its stance before the world before the 19th century. Okay? Meaning that they wanted to be isolated. they wanted uh they didn't want intervention in the outside world. They just turned inward and especially when you had these European traders and um those seeking to penetrate the Japanese market, right? They basically denied most of them entry and access to Japanese markets. Uh but at the same time by the 1800s leaders of Japan began to recognize the fact that the western empires were starting to make inroads in controlling and even dominating that side of their world. Okay, the Asian uh side. And you see this in China for example. Let's call theQing Empire right in decline. And since it was in a state of collapse, well, who took advantage of that? Western empires took advantage of uh the weakness of theQing Empire to establish trading uh ports on the coast of uh China. And this was a sign of what was perceived to be the inevitable domination of China by western empires. Okay, Japan took notice to that and they did not want to be dominated, let alone colonized by a western empire. So they felt that in order to stave off that possibility, what needed to be done was to westernize their own country to modernize it. Okay? In other words, they wanted to emulate these western empires whether through government uh military reform, economics and even culture. All right. So this is known as the maji restoration and it's such a crucial event in Japanese modern history. Okay. Like I said before that you see centuries of um you know feudal uh history in Japan and now uh through uh the the machinations of the leaders of Japan they are forcing Japan by sheer will to modernize practically all aspects of Japanese society as I just mentioned. Right? So again, the purpose of this was to prevent Japan from being colonized and indeed it worked. Okay, you didn't see u these western empires colonizing uh and controlling Japan due to the Maji restoration. Okay, now um what's the consequence of this? Well, this is going to cause social pressures. As I described it earlier, this was a seismic event, right, that shook Japanese society. So you see all the social pressures that's causing dislocation of Japanese and uh so on. And um one example by the way that was um causing some social pressures was that you know this effort to industrialize. Okay, that's the economic dimension of modernization to industrialize your economy seemingly overnight. So, how are you going to thrust your economy uh towards industrialization in emulation of the west? Well, you needed to subsidize it somehow. So the Japanese government had to uh levy this uh exorbitant tax upon the Japanese people to subsidize this effort towards industrialization not to mention other uh uh aspects of modernization besides economic. Okay. So, uh, this was a mammoth ex, uh, expense that would, um, fall on the shoulders of the average Japanese person. And like I said, it was an exorbitant tax. So, um, at the same time, many of the poorer Japanese class, uh, many of them farmers, right, were dispossessed of their land for failure to pay for this tax. All right? So that caused uh to use my term uh enormous dislocation among the Japanese at this time. Uh by the way when does it start? It starts in 1868 the Maji restoration and it continues through this 1870s 1880s spilling over in the early uh 20th century. Another uh law that was passed by the major government was conscription law. And what is conscription? Conscription refers to uh drafting, military drafting, meaning uh you uh require that uh in this period males. Um today, you know, a state like Israel, you have both men and women being conscripted, but back then it was males only. Males um drafted and forced to serve in the military in Japan. Why? because they wanted to modernize their military. Uh before that, what was the uh the military class in feudal Japan? It was the samurai. But now you're replacing that with a modern western style army and navy. By the way, you know, think about, for example, modern weaponry, cannon, rifles, and you know, uh so on, right? as opposed to samurai swords, right? And charging the enemy on horseback. So, um this is the modernization of the army and it required, you know, obviously soldiers. So, they conscripted um people back then. Now added to that is uh a series of natural disasters that were happening in Japan causing again more dislocation but also um you know more um poverty in some regions and still another factor that you could uh put under push factors and by the way these are all push factors because they're happening in Japan itself. Um, another push factor was the fact that you had some American businesses, uh, already penetrating Japan, uh, specifically, it was in the southwest region of Japan. And again, they're opening businesses like import export businesses and stuff like that. And you can see where I'm going with this. So if you think about the Guang Doong province, uh to be specific, when you have American recruiters in pursuit of a different source of Asian labor now that the Chinese have been kicked out, well, they're going to reach out to those American contacts in Southwest Japan to see uh or to inquire into the possibility of recruiting Japanese laborers. Okay. So, put this all together as a constellation of push factors in gendering out migration of Japan to the US west. Okay. Um how does uh the tax figure into it? Well, there were many people who couldn't pay for it, right? Who lost their land before it. So they were essentially homeless and they found a way to escape that by you know possibly signing that contract to work uh specifically uh or more um typically I should say in aggra business and that's farming right they were going to work in the farming sector agricultural sector now that uh the conscription the drafting well if you didn't want to serve in the military which you can imagine many didn't want to well one escape hatch was to uh sign that contract. You know there the word got around that hey you want to work in the US west and by the way this also included Hawaii okay because Hawaii uh the sugar plantations were opening up and they were looking for Japanese labor there. So again, one way to escape the tax, to escape poverty, to escape um social dislocations, to escape the draft was to sign that contract, become a contract worker and journey to Hawaii and the West Coast, and they're going to be serve serving as cheap labor. Now, similar to the Chinese, they are going to be paid less than the American worker. Okay? So, there's still that exploitative relation between the capitalists and uh the Japanese labor force migrating abroad. Okay? So, actually you see uh the first migration happening to Hawaii. Okay? And in fact, if you go to Hawaii today, there's still a huge Japanese influence in culture, in politics. You're probably aware of that. I'm sure you notice that if you've been to Japan, right? Uh where does this start uh from historically? It starts with these Japanese migrating as workers for the sugar plantations. Okay? And notice here there's something dissimilar to the earlier Chinese. Here you have women actually um under the employee of sugar plantation um owners. Now I don't want to suggest that there's equal ratio in terms of gender balance here. It was still uh mostly imbalance between male and female. Um roughly it was um 3 to one um three males to one female but still um as opposed to the earlier Chinese which was predominantly a male population came to the Japanese uh journeying to the sugar plantations of Hawaii. There were more women as depicted in this. Okay. So uh again um this goes a long way in explaining you know the important uh or the centrality of uh Japanese uh culture in Japan even still today right it's due to that again connect that interconnection between um capitalist expansion pursuit of cheap labor and the search for um that cheap labor abroad in this is Hawaiian.