So with this topic, we're going to be discussing US overseas imperialism and colonialism and to be more specific um US imperial designs upon the Pacific region upon Asia and how that's going to affect uh immigration uh from the Pacific region to the United So specifically in Asian-American history, this looms large as a topic for most of Asian immigrant groups. And um as mentioned on the slide, this is the US ambition to become an imperial power, a colonial power. And they sought to be in league with other great empires at that time. And the time I'm speaking about historically is the turn of the 20th century, the end of the 1800s and the beginning of the 1900s. So what we're going to see here is a fundamental change in US foreign policy. Um you probably heard of westward expansion, but basically this is the movement of American settlers moving from east to west, from sea to shining sea, so to speak. This occurred u mostly through the 19th century and once we reached the shores of the Pacific in 1890 well the US um let's just say that the United States never stopped in its westward movement even though we reached California, Oregon and Washington state. No, it proceeded uh inexraably west into the Pacific region. So, you're going to see um the US's first foray into overseas um imperialism in places like Hawaii, which we know today is now a state, uh Guam, the Philippines, Samoa, and some of these areas are still technically part of the United States as a colony, specifically Samoa, parts of Samoa and Guam. Of course, Hawaii is a state. So, um, we're also going to see how this foray into colonialism will lead to this lesserk known yet very brutal war called the PhilippineAmerican War and um we'll see how the United States decides to build its overseas colonies. Uh again at this juncture in our history um the US had no prior experience with overseas colonialism at the end of the 1800s the early 1900s. We had no precedent to follow. How therefore should the United States approach it its own uh specific form of overseas imperialism? Now uh how does this connect to uh let's say AsianAmerican history here? Well, what we'll see here is um the significant extent to which imperialism um overseas colonialism and war figures prominently in the formation of Asianame um in the migratory flow of Asian immigrants to the US in family formation and community building of Asians in America during the 20th century uh even things like identity formation, family formation. So yeah, imperialism, war and so forth will again loom large and it may surprise you the extent to which this is so. Now before I go forward, allow me to pose this question, a historical question, and for those who are astute in American history, you may know the answer to this immediately. But um here's the question. What region of the world, what part of the world geographically did most of US wars take place during the 1900s? Okay, what region of the world did most of our wars take place during the 20th century? And if you answered Asia, you are absolutely correct. Think about this. Uh, I just mentioned the Filipino American War, which um encompassed the end of the 1800s through the beginning of the um 20th century. Then, of course, we had the uh Second World War, which involved uh the Japanese Empire. Following that, we had the Korean War and then the Vietnam War, which involved Laos and Cambodia. So, look at that. Again, most of our wars were fought in the Pacific. Why is this the case? Why the Pacific? What business does the United States have in that region that would entangle it into these wars? Well, here's where again imperialism and empire loom large again. And what we'll uncover here is that the United States really set its sights upon the Pacific region as a quote sphere of influence. Okay, a sphere of influence. And this term a sphere of influence refers to an area in the world outside a country's borders that um you know is considered an area that wants to be dominated by that country right they want to uh wield influence and even domination in that area indeed the Pacific would be exactly that from the American perspective they wanted to establish the Pacific again as a sphere of influence And therefore, you'll see the establishment of colonies. You'll see protect turrets. Okay, that's a term that we'll get into. You'll see military bases and installations in the Pacific region, many of which still remain there today. And um well, I just mentioned that this imperial ambition in the Pacific would wield consequences in terms of immigration of Asians to the US. And indeed the United States was not simply seeking to expand its military power. Rather this ambition encompassed various economic factors, geostrategic factors, political dimensions, even cultural and religious dimensions as we will see. Now when you look at this illustration here, it's an interesting one because well this was published uh following US again involvement with overseas imperialism and the scene here is a classroom and Uncle Sam is the headmaster. He's the teacher and he is an instructor of says on this textbook US first lessons in self-government. So this of course represents United States. And who is the United States providing toutelage to? Well, in the classroom here are the states that have been admitted to the US with westward expansion on the continent, right? You have um New Mexico, California, and even areas like um you know Alaska now part of the the union. But here in the front row, and it gets cut off here on the illustration, but uh this guy you could see has Philippines underneath it. And if it wasn't cut off, you'd see Guam, you'd see Puerto Rico and Cuba here. They're the new students. They're in the front of the class. And this is uh what the headmaster is trying to or the school teacher is trying to impart upon them. The first lessons of self-government. But also other things relating to race is interesting here. Notice the Chinese person is outside the class. He is excluded and not allowed in though he has a book in his hand. Right? Well, this goes back to the theme of the exclusion of the Chinese, especially following um laws like the 1882 Exclusion Act. Okay? So, they're relegated uh outside the classroom. The Native American at the doorstep is not technically part of the class, right? um they're seated on the other side and they've been essentialized here to use their term as savage as univilized in fact so much so that he doesn't know that the book is upside down right so again that's essentialization and this person here African-American well they're not even part of the class right they've been essentialized to a as uh intellectually inferior. Therefore, why even be part of the class? All they're uh consigned to do in this class in this illustration, excuse me, is to uh do menial work. Okay. So, it's a very telling illustration here of what's going on during this particular juncture in US history as the United States is venturing outward to claim other colonies again specifically in the um Pacific region. So before we proceed with um the actual historical discussion here, let's make sure we're all on the same page, so to speak, when it comes to some important key terms here. Now, the big ones to start off with are imperialism, colonialism, and empire. Okay. Now, there's so much interreationship between these three. In fact, you'll often see uh imperialism and colonialism used synonymously, used interchangeably, but you know, academics like more precise um terminology. So, let's uh work towards that. Here's imperialism and it says the ideology and policy whereby the country extend its power over other areas outside its boundaries involves expropriation that is taking away of land resources and economic control for the benefit of that invading country and colonialism is the act of occupying at the very least controlling territory outside the country. So think of imperialism as ideology and policy and um against that think of colonialism as the actual act of again occupation. All right. And uh this brings us to empire right it's that country that does the imperialism and colonialism. The large political body that extends control over the terri over the territory outside its boundaries. Right. And it's usually acquired through conquest, especially this era of of world history really when uh the acquisition of colonies abroad was accomplished through conquest especially military conquest. Okay. So moving to the next term militarism and this term refers to a foreign policy outlook and practice whereby military intervention and military aggression are at the very least the threat of military uh power uh is a central doctrine anal practice of that country. So, you know, there are many examples of this. Uh, World War II, you had the Nazi regime, very militaristic. Um, the Japanese Empire, of course, very militaristic. Of course, World War I before that. And then even recent examples, uh, North Korea, right, uh, led by the dictator Kim Jong-un, well, he loves his military parades, right? So, that's a sign of militarism. uh though you can't really say that they've intervened um in recent times right in wars but it's still a militaristic way of looking at its um foreign relations now the question here is is militarism central to US foreign policy and the answer is absolutely there's been countless military interventions throughout even just the 20th century alone and we're talking about one soon the Philippine American war. But uh think about this. Today there are roughly 800 military bases in 80 foreign countries abroad. Okay? And that's amazing thing to think about when you when you uh uh dwell on that. So the next will term here is settler colonialism. And think about the juxtaposition of these two terms settler and colonialism. So settler colonialism refers to a specific approach to colonialism whereby you see settlers migrating from that mother country from the empire. They migrate to the new colonies right and they populate it. Sometimes they eventually take it over and you know they establish their sovereignty that migration of people establish their domination their sovereignty and sometimes they even replace or at least displace native populations. Okay. So when you think about it the United States during our colonial history is a settler colony, right? The Native Americans were displaced and also think about Hawaii, right? that was a settler uh form of colonialism, settler colonialism because the native Hawaiians have been displaced. Uh not all of the colonies will be settled colonies in US history. For example, the Philippines, which we'll discuss, will not be a seller colony. you will not see a sizable number of Americans crossing the Pacific to o to live in the Philippines to settle it and take it over. Okay? It just won't happen. So, it's important to note that distinction. Think about Hawaii as a colony versus the Philippines as a colony in this context.