We had just discussed how Filipinos uh now that they're colonial subjects, now that the war's over and they've been quote unquote pacified, and now that benevolent assimilation is underway, well, they had to be racially reconstructed. And this is all recap from the previous discussion. If they remained savages and they're essentialized as such well that means you know according to um the vis of race that time they remain savages because it's a permanent feature they are uncivilized as permanently so well they had to be therefore reconstructed if they are going to be taught civilization and what happens is this state of in between us, so to speak. Um, of course, they're no longer savages. Uh, so that means they could be taught democracy, but of course they're not completely civilized. That would be other end of the uh polarity, right? Uh they're not certainly not white racially, so they're in between. They're in between savage and civilized. And there are little brown brothers. And now you could commence to teach the Filipino subjects. um democracy and self-government and other gifts that we wanted to impart upon them as colonial subjects. Now we see this expression of inbetweeness u seed in other areas like their legal status and even geographically for example the legal status of Filipinos. Well, we know they're no longer aliens because the Philippines itself is not a foreign country. Technically uh it belongs to the United States as a colony. So legally they're not aliens or foreigners. Yet of course they won't be extended citizenship. So how can you place them between aliens or foreigners and citizens? Well the designation that emerge is wards. Wards of the state. Another term used by the way was US national. So again this is all happening because the United States is uh doing this for the first time. That is to say colonization and they're making stuff up as they go along. They know Filipinos are not foreigners or aliens, but they also know they're not citizens. Uh they are wards of the state or US nationals. By the way, um, Puerto Rico was also colonized, but when they tried to determine the legal or excuse me, the racial status of Puerto Ricans, uh, they determined that they were white. They were not Asiatic. They were not um, African, right? Well, they were white and therefore they did extend the natives of Puerto Rico's citizenship. So you see that interesting contrast between Filipinos being quote unquote Asiatic, right? They were denied citizenship during this time while Puerto Ricans were indeed given citizenship. It hinged on race. So still today, Puerto Rico remains a colony of the US and Puerto Ricans living there are citizens of the United States. All right, moving on to the colony itself. As we mentioned, there are a lot of euphemisms uh being created because we want to kind of part company with the uh traditional uh practices of imperialism witnessed by previous European empires. We are believers in freedom and democracy. So we choose not to use the traditional term for a area outside the empire that's taken by force. We choose not to use colony but rather the term quote unquote unincorporated territory. So when you think about that term is it suggests inbetweeniness right it's not part of because it's not incorporated it's unincorporated yet it's still territory of the United States okay so again an interesting expression of inbetweeners even in a geographical sense another way to think of unincorporated territory by the way is this it belongs to the United States but not a part of the United States. All right. So, that's our term for the Philippines, unincorporated territory. And by the way, also it'll apply for Puerto Rico. Uh Puerto Rico still today is referred to as unincorporated territory. Okay. So, now we see benevolent assimilation underway. And let's remember this was a civilizing mission. Let's recall uh the exhortations put forth by Senator Beverage that this is something that uh Americans had to do, were ordained by God to do so. Well, America kept its promise in terms of uh introducing modern and western institutions and practices in the Philippines. So this could be seen for example in things like universal education. They provided public education for all Filipino children. And interestingly enough it was taught in English. And indeed, you'll see plenty of American school teachers actually journey going west across the Pacific to the new colony of the Philippines and volunteering to become school teachers to Filipino school children. And they would teach them of course the basics like math but also um science and American literature uh US history, US civics and US values even political values like the belief in freedom, democracy, the pursuit of justice and all of this is going to figure uh very importantly when We discuss the first Filipinos that actually venture to the mother country of the United States and they begin to experience racial discrimination and oppression. Well, they were good students uh in their colonial education and they're firm believers in freedom of democracy. Well, they're going to fight uh against uh the various levels of oppression that are uh visited upon them. Now other institutions that will be um introduced in the new colony um medical care um sanitation, modern sanitation, modern infrastructure like you know modern buildings and um bridges and modern roads and even political institutions. In fact, today the Philippines uh their form of government is structured based on the American government. For example, three branches of government. You have the legislative, executive, and judicial. Well, that's what that is what's around in the Philippines still today. It began in the colonial period. um laws are going to uh be introduced the legal system which are still today uh very influenced by American laws and so on. So this is what's happening. This is the colonial project that's undertaken in the Philippines and this is all part of that civilizing mission. Now one thing to reflect upon however is this that sure on the face of it all these institutions uh being implemented in America's new colony that's a great thing well you know you have public education universal education for all school children it's taught in English you're teaching them US civics teaching them democracy and freedom political values uh like the belief of justice ice and again freedom uh certainly um governmental institutions, economic institutions so on but what does that do in the mind of Filipino natives especially relative to their own culture and own pre-colonial beliefs? How does it serve in fact to suppress any will to resist outside colonization? Well, as you can imagine, uh, some critics of colonialism, whether back then or even today, historians that look back at historical examples of, you know, modernization being imposed upon uh, preodern societies, they look at it from a critical lens that sure on primacia on this surface, it looks great, but in the process, what you're doing is uh, stoifying ing or repressing that will to resist external rule because natives especially through generations of let's say education for many this leads to taking for granted the superiority of their colonizers culture their colonizers ideology compared to their own for example Filipinos school children may know more about Abraham Lincoln and George Washington than their own Filipino heroes. Uh they speak in English and they think that's a superior language to their own native tongues and so on. You can imagine how um this colonial culture imposed upon them the colonizers culture that is in many ways serves to subjugate even after in this case the Philippine American war. So it's a interesting perspective on all these gifts so to speak that uh America is bestowing upon its new colonized people. Well, nonetheless, you do see the Philippines as a new colony, as uninccorporated territory. You see Filipino subjects as our new wards of the US state. And as such, as stated here, as wards, certainly not citizens, uh, but they're not aliens, right? That means as wards, they could freely migrate to the United States. And this is unlike previous Asians. Let's recall the 1882 Chinese Exclusion Act and not to mention the Gentleman's Agreement Act, which largely curbed Asian immigration to the US. Well, in contrast, Filipinos in principle and legally actually uh could freely migrate to the United States. So, it's going to bring about an interesting condition here. Historically speaking, what happens when these colonial subjects who again have been inculcated with American culture, American values via their school teachers, via the textbooks that they read in school, not to mention um their interaction with the American colonizers in the island. uh they're firm believers in America's quote unquote secular religion of freedom democracy. What happens when their freedom and democracy seems to uh be restricted if not taken away from them once they migrate to the new mother country of theirs? And likewise, what happens to Americans? How are they going to view these new colonial subjects that arrive to the mother country? Now, historians of Filipino American culture and history like to refer to three waves historically speaking. The first wave of migration happens at the very outset of um colonial rule and these are the so-called pension. So, what are pensionados? Well, as the name kind of suggests there, these are students who are given pensions to study in universities in America, universities and colleges. And why are they there? They're sent there uh because of their academic talent. And uh once uh arriving at uni universities in America uh they could be taught you know things like public administration uh medicine, law and other areas of study only to return to the colony to fill out these very important bureaucratic positions. So they constitute the colonial bureaucracy in the Philippines. So again, they're um basically given a scholarship, right, a pension to study at the universities in America only to return to the Philippines. And here uh they constitute the bureaucracy. But the first significant wave as we will see and we're about to discuss is number two and that's the agricultural labors in western aggra business during the 1920s and 30s and let's recall that the gentleman's agreement ended for the most part Japanese labor migration but aggra business still wants it cheap labor who will they turn to the Philippines.