So, as stated in the previous videos, once the Philippines becomes a formal colony of the United States, that means that the Philippines could become a source of cheap labor, specifically when there's labor shortages in the United States at any given time. And this occurs actually during the 1920s. But let's remember the first significant migratory flow of Filipinos as cheap labor occurred uh earlier than 1924. It occurred uh with this labor migration to Hawaii. As we discussed last time, during this time around uh 73,000 Filipinos migrated um to Hawaii. And still today, if you go to Hawaii, you'll notice a strong influence not only of Japanese culture, but even Filipino culture there. Um but again the first significant numbers of Filipino wards which are actually colonial subjects as we acknowledge that arrived to the US would happen during this period. We called it the second wave with the previous slide. Agrous laborers working as cheap labor. And what were the conditions that led to this immigration flow? Well, first we need to see how the 1924 immigration act figured into this. And as stated on the slide here, the two senators who sponsored this law were Senators Johnson and Senators Reed, hence the name of this bill. It's known as the Johnson Reed Act. So um this act was passed during the height of Anglo nativeism in the 1920s and uh at this point there were so many immigrants millions of immigrants coming every year to the United States from different parts of Europe uh mostly southern and eastern Europe. So you had Italians coming in, Greeks, Jewish, Russians, Hungarians, and others coming in. Why are they coming, by the way? They're coming in because this is the phase of our industrial revolution where we had severe labor shortages. We lacked industrial workers, factory workers, and therefore we sought that labor abroad in Europe, specifically again the southern and eastern parts of Europe. Now these new immigrants that had been coming over and by the way within those decades from let's say 1870s through the early 1920s about 12 million immigrants came uh from Europe during this part of our immigration history. Uh many of them however were not that traditional Americans that um Anglo were used to. for example, they were Catholic, not Protestant or Greek Orthodox, perhaps even Jewish. Um, they uh were darker skinned. Think of Italians for example. So again, uh many Anglo in the United States were ringing their hands anxious about the fact that the country was being taken over by different types of Europeans and they felt the need to act. So that indeed happened during the 1920s. Uh obviously this law passes in the mid20s here. Okay. So as stated in the slide, the attempt of the 1924 Johnson Reed Act was to drastically cut immigration to curb that immigration flow from southern and eastern Europe. And they did this primarily through something called the National Origins Act as stated here. Um what does this refer to? Well, think of the term National Origins and then think about the different immigrants coming in in terms of race. And by the way, I mentioned darkerkinned Europeans like Italians. Uh let's remember that uh back then race being a social construction, you know, in the 1800s, some felt Italians were not quote unquote white. I know we think of Italian Americans today as whites, but back then it was a contentious issue. So, uh again, Anglos are concerned about this. So what they wanted to do is look at every nation that had uh a historical past with immigration to the United States. They listed each nation and what they did is think about the people there and the skin color. They thought about race and therefore they said well the darker the skin the less we are going to allow per year perom. Okay. So, um you can imagine A through Z, right? This tabulation of country connected to skin color to race. Uh for example, Italy would have a smaller number allowed in a smaller quota allowed for immigration per year. country like France, country like Sweden, um you know very high number allowed per year, high quota. So obviously this is a racebased law. And still today, you know, uh when you look at our history of race relations and so forth, uh this has a terrible reputation because, you know, it's um it's illustrative of our racial ideas about who should be in the country. So again, hopefully you could see how the National Origins Act is going to be effective in curtailing that immigration flow from Europe and also that it's based on skin color, right? And the um the the outcome the preferred outcome was the maintaining of America's racial homogeneity as being predominantly Anglo or northern European perhaps Western European certainly not southern Europeans. Okay. And indeed it was successful. The National Origins Act would not be repealed by the way until the age of civil rights in 1965. Now, what about Asians and the 1924 immigration act? Well, what was added as a provision here was the Asiatic Exclusion Act and basically this barred immigration from all of Asia. We already know that there's the 1882 Chinese Exclusion and certainly the Gentleman Agreement Act, but now you're talking about the entirety of the Asian continent. So, there we go. This is a very effective law, very race-based, racist to be frank. And uh you can imagine the reaction to this uh for those industrialist right economically this means that their source of cheap labor is going to be affected. Again, this highlights the tension between the political needs at this time, which was to again maintain that racial homogeneity, and that's at odds with the economic dimension, which was to uh maintain the supply of cheap labor from abroad. and the two conflict. And it just so happens since this is the 1920s, the height of nivism and anti-immigrant sentiment in the United States. Well, you know, the political side will win over the economic side. So, this leads to drastic labor shortage. And in the West, we know there's different industries in the West. uh they're going to need their labor, their cheap labor to be uh more specific. And there's one area that is actually exempt from the Asiatic Exclusion Act, and that's the Philippines. Why the Philippines? Well, should be obvious. The Philippines is unincorporated territory. It's not a foreign country. Um, Filipinos are wards or US nationals. They could freely migrate to the United States as we acknowledged earlier. Therefore, that's the new source of labor especially for western aggra business after 1924. So again, you see the first significant flow of Filipinos coming to the uh mother country to use that term or the metropole uh and they're going to specifically find themselves on the US West Coast and um they're there to replenish that labor shortage and uh that they are allowed in the the condition of possibility for this to actually material realize is the fact that legally they are colonial subjects or let's use the official term wards or US nationals right uh but they are allowed to freely migrate to the United States and hence this will indeed be the new source of labor for agra business in the west so now we could talk about a definite migratory flow of Filipinos, wards, US nationals to the mother country. And here are some illustrations. Okay. Uh here right now shows the really backbreaking work of agricultural workers. I mean still today. This is the nature of labor that they do. It's called stoop labor because you have to stoop like these guys, right? and do that in the hot sun amid those conditions all day. So, needless to say, many Americans um especially because of the low pay, would rather not do that type of work, whether we're talking about back then in the 20s or even now. And here are some other pictures of these Filipino laborers uh on their day off presumably um and um actually dressed kind of nice, right? So uh these are uh the aggraus workers that arrived. They're recruited by American aggra business and let me remind you aggraus means the commercialization of agriculture right and in general just the food we eat right is aggra business. Um agriculture is big business. So they're recruited into this particular um economic niche and they find themselves again in the American West as well as some would end up in the Alaskan fish caneries by the way, but most of them would become agricultural workers. Now here's a name that describes these um Filipino uh farm workers, monong. They're known as the mons or the monong generation. Where does this name come from? Well, first of all, it's a Tagalog uh term from the Tagalog language. If you don't know what to Tagalog is, it's a dialect in the Philippines, which is the main dialect today. It's the official dialect because the Philippines is comprised of countless numbers of dialects there, but it's the main one. So, in the Tagalic dialect, man means an older uh man. All right? and it's given as a sign of respect mon. Okay. So, however, these guys aren't older. They're young. In fact, demographically, as we'll discuss soon, they're in their late teens, 20s, maybe early 30s. So, they're all very young. Many of them unattached uh single, unmarried males. Why are they called monongs which usually signifies older uh men uh out of a sign of respect again? Well, here's the deal. Um they came over in the 20s and 30s and they were largely forgotten in the history books until the formation of ethnic studies as an uh valid and legitimate academic discipline. And this occurred during the age of civil rights again in 1968. So once this academic enterprise got underway, well they knew uh one of their uh tasks is to research, you know, different ethnic groups in the United States. So you had AsianAmericans uh scholars working in um studying these ethnic histories and some of them remembered hey there's these Filipinos that are mostly male retired they live in San Francisco or various places and they talk about them being agricultural workers we should go interview them and this is what the scholars are thinking about right during the 70s during the 80s so they actually conduct conduct these interviews with the now, you know, uh, retired, many of them in their twilight years, you know, perhaps 70 years old. And they go interview them about their, uh, experiences a as an agricultural worker working for agro business doing this what we call stup labor, right? And because they're older by then and the scholars were young, well, they addressed them as monong as a sign of respect. And that name stuck, the mono generation. So still today when you read uh books in Filipino American history or just Asian-American history in general, you'll see the term monong that applies to these early agricultural workers.