So with the need for cheap labor for aggra business especially after the 1924 immigration act you see aggraus owners looking to the Philippines as a source of new cheap labor and if you look at demographically who the monoms were who comprised the monoms well demographically most of them were very young in fact statistically speaking 85% % were under the age of 35. Uh most were unmarried bachelors. 77% the monongs that came during the 20s and 30s uh were unmarried. And of course they're overwhelmingly male. 93% of the monongs that would find themselves in the US west were men. So in fact the uh ratio between the genders uh was 14-1 during the 1920s 14 to1 14 men to every one woman. And this is going to be important to recognize because as we'll see it's going to factor in uh the rise of anti-filipino sentiment especially by the early 1930s. Okay. Now, it deserves mention here that agricultural jobs were mostly seen as unattractive to the typical American worker. So, um with the 1924 immigration act, you no longer have uh a supply of or a large supply of immigrant labor. Um and then the American worker uh sees agriculture work as unattractive and therefore aggraus owners felt that the Filipinos are the perfect race for this especially because of their smaller stature. um they felt that they're naturally disposed towards what they called steep labor which if you look at this picture you know they're all uh stooped over like this right and because they're shorter right it was felt that they were more naturally inclined physically inclined towards this type of work uh another reason why most Americans did not like this work is simply because how hard it was you add that with the climate the work conditions and the low pay even Today, most of us would prefer not to do this type of work. We'd probably prefer to work in an airond conditioned retail store rather than this stuff. Right now, uh similar to past Asian laborers that came, the Chinese and Japanese, uh the Filipinos were paid less than half the wages of the American workers. So, from the American perspective, this agricultural work did not pay enough. But imagine from the Filipino perspective, uh they're being paid less than half of the um the American worker. And this is in the beginning because they're going to uh press their claims through strikes and unionization for higher wages eventually, but at first they're being paid roughly half the wages of the American worker. So indeed this is a cheap and exploitable labor force from the perspective of aggra business owners. But from the Filipino perspective, it's a trade-off because uh in the Philippines, they're poor. They face poverty. And this is like their uh solution, their remedy to escape poverty was to sign that contract to venture over to the US West and become a contract worker. From their perspective, the wages they were receiving for this hard work was a windfall. It was a significant amount from their perspective as poor Filipinos in the Philippines. So, it's a trade-off. Now, another feature of their labor was that it was radically migratory. Okay? So unlike European immigrants coming over at that time where typically they arrive at the east coast and they settle in ethnic neighborhoods and they work in the factory and of course the factory is stationary. Um compare that to agricultural work where you traverse the entire west coast wherever you're needed um based on the types of jobs available. for example, they might be sent to Washington State, Yakima Valley for example, and they pick maybe uh asparagus there. Then they're next needed to work uh in let's say Sanwaqin Valley for a few weeks and they pick grapes there perhaps. Then they go down to Coachella Valley all the way down to Southern California and they pick whatever uh crops are around there. So, um, they never really have, uh, these definitive ethnic neighborhoods. So, if you don't see a critical mass of Filipino immigrants settling in one place and perhaps, you know, more and more immigrants coming over, so it enlarges, and therefore, you don't see encroachment into, let's say, white uh, neighborhoods or what have you. uh how could this uh emergence of anti-filipino sentiment happen if they're radically migratory and just traversing again the west coast you know here today gone tomorrow how could that arouse anti-filipino sentiment first of all let's think about them as colonial subjects right aren't Filipinos part of America well sort of right they're a colony aren't they assimilated in western education and western culture due to colonialism in their homeland? Yes. Do they speak fluid English due to their English classes taught by American school teachers? Sure, they might have an accent, but they speak uh English quite well. So, what could give rise again to this anti-filipino sentiment? Well, there's going to be various accusations cast towards Filipinos that they're stealing jobs, that they're carriers of exotic diseases, that they're dirty, uh this notion of the inherent criminality of Filipinos. Okay. So, all uh this um this uh collection of um accusations will be hurled towards them. But really at bottom was an explosive charge that they are violators of anti-misogenation laws. So let's examine these charges and these accusations cast toward the Filipinos. Okay. Were they stealing jobs? Well, despite the nivist complaints of labor competition, you know, whites didn't comprise the bulk of the aggraus force. As I just mentioned, um, most Americans did not want to work in agricultural uh, labor because of how grueling it was and certainly the conditions and the the climate and everything. Not to mention it demanded that person to be migratory, radically migratory and not settled in one place. You as you see in industrial work in a single factory. So really when you think about the Mexicans were the only competition for Filipinos cuz you know Mexicans were there too working in aggra business just like today you see a lot of uh Mexicans working in aggra business. In fact, uh, white Aggra business owners used to complain about, uh, Americans that they moved too slow, that they couldn't pack properly, and they felt that, um, the Americans tended to think of the job as beneath the typical American, right? Here's a quote, in fact, from one farm business owner. Quote, "You can't tell a white boy anything. You can't supervise them." quote unquote. Okay, so uh there you go. They just uh preferred to go with other races uh because coming from another country, they're more willing to do the job and you know accept the low wage at the same time and they uh did not feel that it was beneath them because of their impoverished backgrounds. Okay. Now, were they carers of exotic diseases? No, not true. This is again this old belief that racial groups are biologically disposed to exotic disease. Back then um there was this um belief and again it wasn't backed by science. It's almost like this uh superstition or what have you that uh persons of different skin color tended to be the carriers of disease. Not the virus, right? But skin color. Uh that's not true of course. Now um another thing was that were they um you know um westernized? Of course they were. You know they were Christian. They spoke English as I mentioned pretty much assimilated almost fully to western culture. Uh so really the main reason as I alluded to earlier is tied to the willingness of Filipinos to date white women and perhaps equally as infuriating to a nivist the willingness of some white women to date Filipino men and in fact to marry them. Now, one important thing here is this concept called anti-misogenation. Okay, first of all, let's just talk about misogynation. Here's a term you don't see around anymore, okay? Because it's much less controversial. What does misogynation refer to? That refers to interracial relationships, right? uh sexual relations between the races and even marriages. All right? So anti-misogenation of course is the uh view that this should not happen. And indeed the United States had various anti-misogenation laws. Now they weren't federal laws across all you know states around at the time but they were uh state laws. So various states had versions of anti-misogenation laws whereby uh people from different races were prohibited from having relationships with each other, romantic sexual relationships, let alone marriage. Now not all states uh carried these. In fact, uh, some of these Filipinos would go to states um with their white fiance that didn't have anti-misogenation laws and then get married there and then they would venture back to California to work and they had to deal with the consequences there. Uh, but nonetheless, they existed, okay? Anti-misogenation laws. So when you think about it, arguably the main reason, the root cause of anti- Filipino sentiment flaring by the uh 1930s is tied to their willingness to date white women amid anti-misogenation practices and anti-misogenation laws. And indeed what became caricatured with the Filipinos uh was this notion of Filipino sexual aggression, their primitiveness. Okay, by the way, this is sort of thinking of African-Americans uh during Jim Crow, you know, in the segregated South. The same type of caricature arose with African-American males. So, uh Filipino men, they did openly pursue white women, most of them, right? They did date uh and some even sought marriage with white women. And as I mentioned, many white women agreed to it. Now, it makes you think, why would Filipinos think this way when perhaps they uh learn about anti-misogenation laws upon arriving? Why would they still continue to pursue this? Well, you got to think about that colonial experience that they had in the Philippines. there's a connection between their colonial education they received in the Philippines and their mindset as you know colonial workers migrating to the mother country of America right so because of their white school teachers teaching them about equality and freedom uh they made this false assumption that we are equal to everyone there and therefore this sense of equality um led to the conclusion that you know, hey, we could date white women. And when they learn that it's even, you know, against the law, they'll say, hey, this is unjust, right? Uh this is not what America espouses. Uh this is not the America in their textbooks. So many of them, in fact, were willing to fight against this injustice as we'll uh soon discuss. by the way not only refers to uh or this tendency to fight injustice among Filipinos not only refers to fighting anti-misogenation laws but also to fighting their exploitation as aggraus labors you might know this uh but most Americans don't know this but that Filipinos were at the forefront of the 1960s movement to end exploitation exploitation of farm workers In fact, Caesar Chavez and Dolores Huerta and the Mexican workers joined their union, right, that was already established to fight against labor exploitation in the 60s and 70s.