So, we just discussed the host of reasons as to why you see the emergence of anti-filipino sentiment by the late 1920s into the 1930s. And there's some miscellaney of reasons here as we discussed. There's the accusation of labor competition which was false as we know because most Americans didn't work in that particular uh sector. Um there's the accusation of being carriers of exotic disease. Of course, that's completely ludicrous. But the main one, and it was actually true, was that Filipinos openly pursued white women. And you see couples um of Filipino men and white women out in the public which aroused the consternation and aroused the eyeire of especially nivist because Filipinos were openly flouting the anti-misogenation norms and the laws not to mention the laws uh that were around at the time. So you see violence starting to happen. Between 1929 and 1930, you had at least 30 reported incidents of racial violence perpetrated against Filipinos taking place on the West Coast. Two of them were large-scale riots and firebombings. Uh and here's one here, the Stockton record Filipino club bombing. You see the mergence of things like this. Filipinos keep out, right? Here's a sign that says, "Get rid of all Filipinos or will burn this town down." Here's a hotel entrance that does not admit Filipinos. It says positively, "No Filipinos allowed." So, um, what about law enforcement? They did very little, in fact, to put a stop to it. In fact, often times, law enforcement were involved. They were the perpetrators of violence against Filipinos. And this would uh later be um memorialized in a particular novel which we'll discuss soon uh by this mono in the west named Carlos Bosum but I'll get to that in a second. Okay. Now um here this gives rise to this Watsonville riot in 1930. Uh this is one of the large scale riots I just referred to. And this is a case where um it says here in January 1930, Watsonville, California, a mob of 500 white men attacked Filipino farm workers after Filipino men danced with white women at a dance. Politicians call for Filipinos to be deported. A law was passed banning marriages between Filipinos and white people. And we'll talk about that in a second. Uh so this happened in Watsonville, California. Um, here's a headline of Filipino murder victims of riers. Um, another one that says, "Antilipino feeling flares up in raids. Many islanders taken for rides, told to leave the country in skirmishes Tuesday near here. Taken for a ride. What does that mean?" Basically, they're forced into a car. They're beat up and then left on the roadside. And again, this is something that that was in the novel by Carlos Blo. Okay. taken for rides. Now, um it was true that not all but some Filipinos were willing to violate the anti-misogenation laws, right? So, oh, by the way, here is Carlos Bosen, the mono, uh who wrote this novel called America is in the heart. And um uh this is actually a part of American literature. All right. In fact, personally, I read it in American lit class, and some of you may have heard of that, perhaps even read it. But it's about uh the plight and predicament of monongs in the west coast, what they had to deal with and that um cognitive dissonance between you know what they were told in their colonial education about America and how it's the land of freedom and democracy only to come over to America as colonial subjects and to see the opposite. Now it's important to note not all white Americans hated Filipinos. In fact, Bosen writes about this in his book. He had many white friends who were wanting to help the Filipinos. But still, let's remember this is a high tide of nivism in US history. And therefore, you see this anti-filipino flare up uh at this particular time. And he says here, "In many ways, it was a crime to be a Filipino in California. I came to know that the public streets were not free to my people. We were stopped each time these vigilant patrol men saw us driving a car. We were suspect each time we were seen with a white woman. And perhaps it was this narrowing of life into an island into a filthy segment of American society that had driven Filipinos inward. Please God don't change me in America, I said. So you see the change here, right, that's happening to him. He had no idea that America was going to be filthy, right? a filthy segment of American society, but he finds himself in that filthy segment. And uh again, it talks about the disillusion and disenchantment of many of the mons once they arrived here. Now, here's a case where one guy, Salvador, Rolodon, and his fiance, her name was Marjorie Rogers, and they intended to marry, but they realized that California has anti-misogenation laws. So, what did they do? Rather than go to a state like New Mexico where they didn't have anti-misogenation laws, Salvador and U. Marjgery decide to contest to fight the anti-misogenation laws as unconstitutional and indeed it reaches uh that is the court case of Raldon versus Los Angeles County. It reaches this California Supreme Court and the California Supreme Court argues that Raldon is indeed uh his his argument is indeed valid. Okay. So, how does this happen? By the way, how was Rald Dunn able to convince uh the justices in again the California Supreme Court that his argument was indeed a valid one? Well, it came down to what was uh called actually it's called today scientific racism, right? But um back then there's this science of race happening and just like any scientific endeavor you know you try to understand natural phenomenon in the world or or you know whether it's you know living organisms or or um you know um chemistry right u and or molecules right depending on what level but also scientists were trying to understand race. Now we know that race is a social construction. But nonetheless, scientists were attempting to understand and classify race. And one way they classified race and this occurred actually earlier, but it still had currency here in the 1920s, 1930s during this court case. And anyway, one way they did it was to classify races according to three types here. And the three types were this uh Caucasian, Mongolian and Negro or sometimes the term Ethiopian would be used which is synonymous to Negro. Okay, Mongolian, Ethiopian, Caucasian. And you can imagine what it applied to. Caucasian we still use that word today. Refers to um white skin. Negroes of course not used today in uh racial discourse but that refers to black skin. Mongolians used to refer to persons of Asian descent. Now, uh, Salvador in his, uh, contestation of anti-misogenation laws argued this that California, their anti-misogenation laws were based on this uh, three classifications, Negroes, Mongolians, and Caucasians. However, Filipinos, it's been ascertained by more recent anthropology back then, okay, back in Salvador Raldon's time, right? Uh that it was proven that Filipinos actually should be classified as malle, not Mongolian. But California had no recognition of malle and its anti-misogenation laws. It just said that Caucasians cannot uh be in relationship with Negroes and Mongolians. No mention of Malle. Salvador Raldon appealed to the uh more contemporary theories about race and claiming he's malle and therefore he's exempt from the anti-misogenation laws. Now the Supreme Court hearing this, you know, agreed. they there was no mention of malle in the anti-misogenation laws of California. So they did grant um Raldon and Margie Rogers the permission to marry. So here we see an interesting case where as I mentioned Filipinos were by virtue of their colonial education were inclined to seek justice. This is what they were taught by their American school teachers to fight against injustice. So, this is what they're doing here. And in case you didn't know, misogynation laws within various states would be around until the 1960s. And it wouldn't be until the age of civil rights when the Supreme Court of the United States declared these various state anti-misagination laws as unconstitutional. So look at that. Before 1967, you could actually get arrested and put in jail if you were having a relationship with a person outside your your race. Now, because of the Filipinos willingness to flout the anti-misogenation laws in California and other states, well, the label that was created for these Filipino monongs on the West Coast was quote unquote the third Asiatic invasion. So, this brings up the question, who were the first two Asiatic invasions? Okay. Uh, the first two were the Chinese and the Japanese. And if you know anything about Asian-American history, um these two groups preceded the Filipinos on the US West. You had the first Chinese coming over here in the very late um 1840s. And they're here primarily in the mining industry during the gold rush. And eventually a law would be passed. It's called the 1882 Chinese Exclusion Act here. And this law would basically um ban all Chinese labor immigration. It's the first and only immigration law to specifically designate a particular race or national group for exclusion from immigration in the United States. And then the after the Chinese uh exclusion act you see the Japanese come to replace them as uh workers primarily in aggra business. But uh you're going to see another law passed. It's called the gentleman's agreement in 1907 and this will ban Japanese labor immigration to the United States. So the Filipinos as we know are wards. They are US nationals. So therefore they freely migrate. But still that doesn't prevent uh the passage of a law to prevent uh these wards of the US state from coming over. So in other words they follow the same plight of the earlier Chinese and Japanese and the particular law that will ban them is the tidings McDuffy act. And here is the it's sort of a compromise here. Um the tidings of McDuffy Act uh stated that uh the Philippines must end uh immigration and labor immigration particular uh the immigration of laborers from the Philippines to the US. But in return, the US promises to grant the Philippines independence 10 years hence. So they would promise to uh give independence in 1944. But in 1944, we were in the middle of a war, World War II. So, couldn't happen in 1944. It would actually happen in 1946. Okay. So, uh just some observations here before we finish unit one. We talked about um our first foray into imperialism and it brought us to um the Pacific, but it led us to abandon many of our principles and we started behaving like other empires if you notice. And what we're going to see in um future um parts of this lecture, this course, we're going to actually make changes in our foreign policy approach. We're going to abandon formal formal colonialism and practice it in a more indirect version. And we'll always see how immigration and imperialism are interconnected historically speaking in this course.