Okay, so continuing with our definition of key terms. The previous slide we discussed imperialism, colonialism, empire and also discussed some related terms that are important for this class such as militarism and settler colonialism. So the next term here uh on the slide are the terms metropole and periphery and the two are uh juxtaposed to each other. Metropole um ju justaposed to periphery and I have to say that this term metropole and periphery um are academic terms. Okay, it's used by historians and academics to refer to that colonial relation between the so-called mother country and mother country of course refers to the actual colonial country or uh imperial power right and the mother country's colonies and from the perspective of the mother country those colonies um lie in the peripheral regions of the empire. Okay, so that's the term periphery. This is more of a geographical term and again it's an academic term but I'm introducing it because you will encounter this in some future readings assigned in this class and um have to say that back then uh in terms of the supposed greatness of any given empire uh one way it was measured the greatness that is was the extent of its overseas colonies abroad that is the more colonies you had in your possession, the greater you were as an empire, it was believed. Okay. All right. So, the next term on the list is neoc colonialism. Neoc colonialism. And this refers to the prolongation or the enduring uh continuation of domination and control by empires even over their former colonies even after independence is granted to those colonies. Okay. So it manifests itself in different ways politically, economically and even culturally. So for example, politically uh neoc colonialism could describe when for example a former colony is still a dependable ally um of the former mother country, right? Even during times of global crisis, war, what have you, you have that former colony, now it's now as a sovereign country, you know, as a dependable ally there to back you up. Um, and economically, this is this especially looms large in a neoc colonial relation. This is a case where uh a given country that was once a colony remains beholden to that former mother country in economic terms. That is it's still dependent its economy is still dependent upon that former mother country. Um why has this happened by the way? Usually typically it happens in the past whereby uh in the negotiations between the former mother country and the colony about to be granted independence, they stipulate that certain conditions must be in place whereby the mother country or former mother country will benefit economically uh from the economy of the ex colony. Okay. Uh this is usually done in um terms of preferential terrorists, right? To establish the mother country or former mother country as quote a most favored nation to give them that status. That is to say among all the countries of the world, they're going to confers uh preference in their trade relations with the former mother country. Okay? They're going to give them privilege. So there still benefits obviously the mother country even though they gave that mother country gave that colony independence right. Uh what about the cultural dimension as stated earlier? Well, this is a case where natives of that former colony still believe that the culture of that former um mother country of their colonial masters, that is to say, is inherently superior to their own native culture. How does this happen? This happens because or largely due to decades if not centuries of colonial ideology imposed upon native minds to the point where they get inculcated with this ideology that yeah it's the you know the mother country that's superior inherently to them right a big institution in that inculcation is colonial real education even think for example of teaching uh if let's say if you're a England and you go to um you know you colonize a country in Asia and you teach native children in English and you teach them English history and English culture well they're going to believe in the inherent superiority not all of them but many of them are going to believe in the inherent superiority of that mother country right just by being inculcated uh with the mechanisms found in colonial education. For example, as I mentioned, the Philippines would be a colony of the United States for about half a century. And during that time, still today, um well, during that time, due to the ideological imposition of US um culture, right? Still today, standards of beauty in the Philippines are based on light skin. That is what's preferred, what's thought to be more quote unquote beautiful is lighter skin compared to the naturally dark skin that most Filipinos possess. Right? So this is example of um neoc colonialism in a cultural sense. Now moving on to the last term on the slide, unincorporated territory. We're going to discuss this more uh very soon, but basically this term was created by the United States to designate its own colonies. And um we hesitated to use the term colony because of the baggage that's attached to that, right? uh that is it uh seems to contradict notions of democracy and imperialism. So we used an euphemism to describe our colonies abroad and that's unincorporated territory. Okay. So still today that's the official term for places like Puerto Rico and American Samoa and Guam, unincorporated territory. All right. So now we're going to discuss