So now we could begin to discuss the major shift that occurs in US foreign policy in our foreign policy attitude and approach happening during the turn of the 20th century during the late 1800s into the 1900s. And that's a transition from isolationism towards that of internationalism. And in our context of this class, internationalism can be basically understood as imperialism, right? The act of imperialism of colonizing regions abroad, asserting our power outside the boundaries of the country. Okay, first of all, let's define isolationism here. What is isolationism? Well, it refers to a foreign policy or approach whereby a given nation minimally interferes or intervenes uh in global affairs. Okay. The preferred attitude, preferred approach is towards non-intervention, right? uh not to get involved in the affairs that are happening throughout the rest of the world. Rather uh the the preference is to look only domestically uh to be only involved on domestic issues rather than international issues. Okay. Now I have to mention here that this was exactly the US's approach towards foreign policy uh from let's say 1800 to 1890. All right, more or less. I'm not saying that we were completely isolationist but for the most part this was the um tradition upheld by American policy makers throughout most of the 19th century. isolationism. Okay. So, uh during this period, the US did not really assert itself overseas. It didn't really play a part on the world stage so to speak. In fact, among the general public, foreign policy or foreign affairs excited very little interest among them. Okay, this is because of that isolationist doctrine that took hold. So let's explore some specific reasons for isolationism during this era of US history. For one, it was indeed a political tradition. Okay, political reasons for internationalism. That is to say that the American outlook politically was insular. It was inward, not outward. Okay? In fact, um that isolationist uh politics was echoed in various speeches given by presidents. Our first president, right, George Washington, said this exactly in his farewell address, which and I'm paraphrasing here, uh that we shouldn't get involved in entangling alliances abroad. Okay, what did he mean? He's saying as the, you know, this new nation that he's the first president of, let's not get involved in those imperial um um conflicts that are happening, especially in Europe, right? Let's isolate oursel from that. In fact, a later president, his name is uh John Quincy Adams. He's the son of um an earlier President John Adams and he issued a famous um sort of directive in his speech uh about foreign policy being isolationist and uh famously goes like this that America quote should not go abroad in search for monsters to destroy unquote. Okay, meaning again that let's not get involved in these um entangling alliances again, right? To quote Washington once again, let's focus inward. Let's be insular in our outlook. Okay, another reason you could cite as being economic. Okay. And to be specific, during this time, America was just focusing on a form of what you call economic nationalism. And this basically refers to that approach in your economics whereby you just focus on economic development within your country and not really in depending on other nations, right? It's a form of trying to nurture self um reliance on your economics. Okay. So stated otherwise our economy and at this developmental stage still did not rely on foreign markets for various um you know trading goods. foreign markets were not yet essential. And this is largely due to the fact of not only economic nationalism but also to um uh well it was a period of our industrial uh the early period I should say of our industrial revolution whereby what was outputed uh in this context in the factories you know our industrial output could basically be absorbed by internal demand. Okay. So let me state that another way. Um this is the beginning of our industrial revolution that happens um let's say mid 1800s and at that point of it of our industrial uh revolution everything we produced in our factory system right the industrial system could be uh domestically consumed. Okay. And therefore we didn't have to worry about trying to find foreign markets to absorb any let's say over surplus. In fact there was no such thing as surplus yet at this juncture. Okay. So um again for foreign markets were not yet essential right and this is a period of economic nationalism. Now another reason is that um this kind of links everything together. uh America was focusing its energies on uh expansionism uh in a geographical sense and we know this as westward expansion right and not only that developing our economy something I alluded to just earlier okay these are all domestic uh issues um continental expansion um economic development right? It does not um depend heavily upon foreign affairs. Okay. Now another reason and this is the fourth reason I'm citing here is a matter of simple geography that is you know we have this considerable distance from Europe. So we could kind of uh you know uh remain unattached from you know the um entangling alliances to use Washington again. Not to mention you know we're surrounded by two large oceans. So in that sense we're geographically isolated right? So this um distance from the European continent enabled us to be insulated from its political troubles. Okay. So we didn't have to be involved in affairs in Europe. Now this the opposite. If you happen to be a country in Europe, let's imagine you're landlocked and you're surrounded by various empires. It seems inevitably the case that somehow you're going to be entangled in uh the imperial affairs of these empires. Right? For America at this stage, we were secure, right? we we were um we have the security of two oceans separating us and therefore in a geographic sense again enabling that isolationist standpoint. Okay. So this basically are the reasons for isolationism. Now the question emerges what factors uh would lead to changes in America's foreign policy outlook and why did expansionism overseas suddenly become a permanent feature and remain so today when you think about it how well or why does that become a permanent feature of American foreign policy and here we have to specifically look at the 1890s as a pivotal decade So what we're discussing really here is that transition again from isolationism towards that of internationalism. Why the fundamental change here? Okay, first of all we have to acknowledge this that um in 1890 the frontier was declared as closed by the US census the US government. What does that mean? It means that uh the country the nation of the United States has expanded geographically uh from sea to shining sea so to say and you know you have California, Oregon and Washington state incorporated now and um the frontier to the west no longer existed. Okay, what exists to the west is the Pacific Ocean. All right. So, in other words, it's the closing of the frontier, the end of westward expansion. Now, here is is a crucial question that you should take note of, and it relates to that shift to internationalism. Does the closure of the frontier signal the end of American expansionism? Did westward expansion stop once we reach the shores of the Pacific? in 1890. Okay. Well, I already sort of hinted at this earlier, right? No, it doesn't stop. Okay. Westward expansion will continue after 1890 across the Pacific. In a way, you could connect the two processes. In a way, you could say uh our movement into the Pacific region was inexraably the same process as continental expansion. They're the same inexurable process, right? Okay. Another reason that's crucial here is economic. I just mentioned that you know we're undergoing the throws of industrial revolution but still during many of the decades of the 1800s what we produced industrially could be consumed by domestic uh consumption. But by the 1890s that was no longer the case. Why? Because what came into existence was a state of affairs that economists call economic overproduction. Okay, so that's a key term here, economic overprouction. Overp production refers to again a state of affairs whereby um domestic output could no longer be absorbed by uh domestic consumption. Therefore you develop surplus in what you're producing industrially as an economy. Okay, you're overproducing. So what is the remedy for economic overprouction when you think about it right? How can you cure this um state of affairs known as economic overprouction which is a negative state of affairs? Well the perceived solution is to seek foreign markets. seek markets abroad that is different nations that could be a possible market for your surplus goods. Okay. So just to um state it otherwise before 1890 there was no um if you will this um urgent uh situation of economic over production. Okay. It was not yet an exigency, but by 1890 it indeed turned into an exigency. The exigency of economic overp production by 1890 meant that the US should indeed search for foreign markets to look for markets abroad outside its own borders uh and find prospective consumers of its surplus. And still another reason this is the third reason for that shift towards internationalism is the simple fact that the United States is developing certain economically they are in fact uh by 1900 we would surpass England as the greatest industrial power in the world. Okay. So we are rising in that hierarchy of great countries and therefore the US develops a new found desire to compete with European empires and to become a superpower to use a more modern term, right? The superpower. Yet how do you establish greatness? How do you put yourself in league with other great empires? Well, you have to play the game of empire itself. you must become imperial if you want to be great at least back then. Okay, so that meant the US has to play ball so to speak. We need to become an empire if we want to be regarded on the global stage as a great country and that's indeed what happens. We pursue uh the empire largely because we seek status before the rest of the world.