With the defeat of the Spanish Empire by the United States by the late 1890s with the SpanishAmerican War, suddenly some very important colonies that used to belong to Spain now fell upon the lap of the United States and therefore the country had to decide whether or not to formally annex these um colonies. Now, of course, if they decided to pursue that, that basically meant that the United States was now officially an overseas imperial power and empire basically. But if they decided to grant these ex colonies of Spain uh independence and allow them uh the right of self-determination, well that was more in keeping with the American tradition thus far, the tradition of you know anti-colonialism, anti-imperialism and needless to say uh those accord more with our beliefs in freedom democracy. Right? Okay. So at the same time by the late 1800s there was a new mood that swept through the country and that's uh what I call expansionist fever on this slide. So you know this as I mentioned provoked great debates even among Americans luminaries well-known uh people in the United States uh that were interested in this uh so-called dilemma that we face and uh they wanted to make their um opinions known and you see this expressed in the media you see this expressed by key military strategists you see this expressed by political leaders, religious leaders, and um so on so forth. So, as you can see on the slide, you see print media basically advocating overseas imperialism. Um here's just one out of countless examples uh by the National Geographic, which we're all familiar with and it's still with us today, of course. Well, here's what they said in the in in their um commentary about whether or not the United States should uh colonize the Philippines. Um to quote, "The United States should take its rightful position among the nations of the earth." Now, nations of the earth here basically meant those European empires especially. All right? The British Empire, the French Empire, the emerging German Empire, Russian Empire, and so forth. Uh the welfare of our nation lies largely in the development of trade with the nations south of us and the countries of the far east. Far east meaning uh Asia. Our policy in the future must be an aggressive one. Okay. So uh not only is that last uh sentence eye opening, oh we have to be aggressive in our pursuit of overseas imperialism, but take note of the fact that they are emphasizing here economic reasons as to why um assuming the stance of imperialism and and practicing it overseas, right? Uh should be the uh correct um path of the nation. Uh that is to say, it's important for trade. Let's remember uh we discussed a while back in a previous slide the notion of economic overprouction right and that this particular state of affairs had now set in uh in the United States. Okay. So moving on to a very famous military strategist. His name is Alfred theer Mayhem and he wrote this very important work which is a history of naval power and how that was critical in um the uh achievement of uh imperial ambitions in history. So basically he's arguing that we have to follow history, right? He ar he argues that naval power overseas is a crucial condition for national greatness and that we have to modernize our navy. And to be honest, this was uh published in 1890. So even by then, the United States was modernizing its navy, meaning that they're leaving behind the so-called old navy, you know, the ships made of, you know, wood and um you know, and uh you know, the sails and everything, right? and they're now um transitioned towards the new Navy where you had gunships made of of steel and powered by you know modern ways like like steam and um powered by engines and so forth rather than sails and wind power. Okay. So he recommends later um after the uh Spanish u defeat with the Spanishame war, he re recommends that the United States takes Manila. Manila being the capital of the Philippines after Dwey defeats the Spanish there. Okay, so here's what he said. quote, "The future of China is quite the most interesting commercial question of the Pacific to us at the present moment. The port of Manila is a very centrally situated as regards the whole sweep of the eastern coast of Asia." So here he's uh looking interestingly at uh interestedly at uh China as being um you know big market for United States, right? Hence commercial question quote unquote. And he says that easy access could be made to to that area through the port of Manila, right? And uh not only of China but really uh quite potentially uh what we call the Pacific Rim today, right? It's a potential market. Okay. And then moving to a politician here, Senator Henry Kat Lodge, probably one of the most prominent um politicians back then and of course a prominent supporter of US militarism and expansionism. Here he puts it pretty um um straightforwardly, right? He says, quote, "We make no hypocritical pretense of being interested in the Philippines solely on the account of others. We see our duty for ourselves as well as to others. We believe in trade expansion. We mean to stimulate the expansion of our trade and open new markets. So in other words, he's not he's saying that, hey, we're not doing this just to, you know, um help others, right? Uh we actually are self-interested. And of course, he underscores trade expansion. And again, notice how all three commentators here, whether it's the print media, uh, military strategist or politicians are, um, setting their sights upon Asia with trade in mind. Okay? So, we have to really emphasize that trade. But here's the question. Is economic expansion going to convince Americans, right, that hey, you know, um they should all support imperialism and then even though it's against the grain of the American belief system, what I like to call America's quote secular religion unquote, that is to say, freedom, democracy, right? Because again, imperialism is at odds with that. Okay? So, uh, what we're going to see is other politicians come up with a constellation of justifications as to why the United States uh, should u should colonize the Philippines and thus become an imperial power overseas. Now in this slide we see a well-known illustration that was published again by uh print media at the time and it shows Uncle Sam here and upon his shoulders and his back are all these accutrants of modernity and not only that you know so-called western knowledge. Okay. So here you see uh Uncle Sam, the United States, in other words, as the harbinger, the purveyor of modern life, modernity, such as steel rails for railroads and modern buildings, you know, modern bridges, even stuff like, you know, um mowing machines here, bicycles, right? As if there's no bicycles in the Philippines, uh and so on so forth. just you know uh modern technology as a whole. But also notice here in his hand is education and religion. By the way, as with practically all Spanish colonies, the Philippines was overwhelmingly Roman Catholic. So it wasn't exactly, you know, uh a non-Christian country, right? Or colony that is. Uh but nonetheless, you know, um we believe that we were bringing religion to the Philippines. Now, here's Uncle Sam, and you see the Philippines as an area that um is almost a stepping stone, so to say, to this area, which is China, right? And here's this person who's supposed to represent China and happily greeting them, right? And you know all this wanted here you know uh modern bridges engines and you know electric light and all this stuff clocks watches again the presumption here was that China was so backwards that they didn't have you know any access to the stuff right so this is kind of illustrating our justification as to why we should take the Philippines right that it's to use my earlier term a stepping stone to the markets of China which seemed unlimited at that time. You have to imagine you know um hundreds of millions of people at that time as potential consumers of American goods. So now let's look over this famous speech by Senator Beverage which he gave uh in justification for the colonization of the Philippines. And here, as I mentioned earlier, you're going to see him put forth a miscellaneous of reasons and not just economic, in other words, as to why we should pursue our imperial ambitions in the Pacific and take the Philippines as a crucial part of that goal. Okay. So, he says here, "Mr. President, the Times call for cander. The Philippines are ours forever. quote territory belonging to the United States unquote as the Constitution calls them and just beyond the Philippines or China's limitable markets. Now limitable is the old way of saying unlimited. Uh we will not retreat from either. We will not repudiate our duty in the archipelago. We will not abandon our opportunity in the orient. We will not renounce our part in the mission of our race trustee under God of the civilization of the world. And we will move forward to our work, not howling out regrets like slaves whipped to their burdens, but with gratitude for a task worthy of our strength and thanksgiving to Almighty God, that he has marked us as his chosen people, henceforth to lead in the regeneration of the world. Now, this single paragraph itself is replete with justifications, as I'm sure you notice. In fact, it's good in your note takingaking to label them, you know, according to types of justification. Are they economic? Are they religious? Are they geostrategic? Um, and so on so forth. So, in fact, let's start uh at the bottom of this paragraph. He says, um, thanksgiving to Almighty God that he has marked us as his chosen people, henceforth to lead in the regeneration of the world. So it's obvious here that he's invoking God here, almighty God. And he's uh of the belief that Americans are God's chosen people. And then what does this mean? How does he connect it with the quote regeneration of the world? This is basic colonization, right? Um God has um chose the American people to regenerate the world. And if you think about that previous slide, I know it's mostly economic, but you know, think about the United States as, you know, again, the harbinger of, you know, modern life. And not only that, um, western um, knowledge, right, science and so forth. So the notion here is that it is incumbent upon Americans to enlighten other people in the world uh to guide them from this dark cave of savagery so you will and bring them into light of the modern world. Okay. And again it's a uh task that you know uh that was uh um that we are shouldering right uh as God's chosen people. Now another thing is economic here we can't ignore that of course beverage does it and he says on top here just beyond the Philippines or China's elimitable or unlimited markets. So he's saying that hey we need China's to Chinese customers excuse me to uh solve the problem of economic overp production. Okay this is the background the context the economic context uh for overseas imperialism. I just mentioned that there are hundreds and millions of potential Chinese customers of American goods. this uh could could be the remedy for overseas production. We just need to tap into that market. The Philippines serves as a gateway towards that economic goal.