All right. So, moving forward with our analysis of uh Senator Bever's speech and in our previous discussion, we had acknowledged certainly economic reasons, right, but also religion and specifically uh beverages belief felt by many others at that time uh that um America or Americans were God's chosen people. Right. Okay. And hopefully you took notice also of the fact that he invoked race here. Okay. And it's an interesting sentence right here uh where he links race with religion and let's call it cultural reasons. Okay. Now these are all connected. In fact, you could almost say they're interconnected, right? You can't dissociate one from the other. uh terms of justification at least in beverages mind he thinks this way but let's read the sentence he says we will not renounce our part in the mission of our race trustee under God of the civilization of the world now when he says mission of our race he of course means the American race but let's be more specific and indeed this term will be seen in uh other parts of his speech that we will analyze the term is Anglosaxon Okay, which really means English. Okay, indeed the United States saw itself back then as an extension of English or Anglo-Saxon civilization. Uh, and this is of course the inheritance of us being English colony back in the day, right? Okay. So, he does invoke race here and again we discuss how, you know, we're seen as God's chosen people, Americans. But then he connects it to what I call cultural reasons. And it's uh very specific here. And let's come up with a term here that you should take note of in your notes. The term is quote civilizing mission unquote. Okay? Civilizing mission. And I kind of talked about it here with the regeneration of the world. But the civilizing mission is basically uh this um task of bringing um western technology, western religion, namely Christianity, western knowledge, you know, like a science and what have you, right? um to people who are deemed to be backwards and be knited. Uh let's use the word savage because that's what the word they that's the word they used. Okay. So these backwards people well um it was almost like a task, right? And again, they're trustees under God to quote uh Beverage a task to bring civilization to these savages. Right? And interestingly enough, in the same paragraph, he says, "We'll move forward to our work not howling out regrets like slaves to their burdens, but with gratitude for a task worthy of our strength." Okay? So, he's saying that, "Hey, this seems like a burden." Okay. But we're not going to act like slaves who are burdened, right? We're not going to howl out regrets in doing this task. Okay? This is something that we have to do. It's like almost uh not only religious but uh a moral responsibility to bring civilization, right? And again, let's use our term civilizing mission. Okay? So again, it's seen as a burden. And later we're going to see a poem written by a famous English poet that uses the term burden. Okay. To describe everything I've been uh analyzing in the speech. Okay. So to the next paragraph it says this island empire is the last land left in all the oceans. If it should prove a mistake to abandon it, the blunder once made would be irretrievable. If it proves a mistake to hold it, the error the error can be corrected when we will. Every other progressive nation stands to relieve us. Okay, this is interesting because it puts it in the context of imperial rivalry back then. Okay, what does this mean? It means that you know these various European empires are basically competing with each other and trying to gain territory. In fact, they often go to war with each other in the fight over overseas territory. And still further, you have to analyze World War I and sort of the aftermath of World War II, World War I, which is World War II, as you know, imperial conflict, right? Um the various empires at war with each other. Okay. So he's saying here that um okay we face a dilemma as I described it earlier. Now, if it's a mistake to uh not take it, right? Well, you know what? Uh we can't take that back. Okay? It's an irretrievable blunder. Right now, it it's it proves to be a mistake to actually annex it, to hold it, to possess it. Well, whatever mistakes happen, we could just fix it, right? So, you know, let's not even think about this dilemma. Let's just grab it, right? Is what he's saying. And this is absolutely true. This last sentence, every other progressive nation, and progressive nation means other European empires. Okay, so he's saying every other empire stands ready to grab it if we don't. And that is absolutely true. of the British Empire, the German Empire were looking at the Philippines interestingly or interestedly, excuse me, because they understood that the United States uh in its past, at least in overseas sense, never uh followed the tradition of overseas imperialism. And should uh the United States not pursue overseas imperialism, well that means that those other empires could grab it. They could take over and quote unquote relieve us of this uh duty, right? This burden to use the term. Okay. So that is a geostrategic reason. Okay. a geostrategic meaning you know a global uh the global context right and you have to put it in the context of uh imperial strategy right okay so um here's the next part of the speech but to hold it will be no mistake our largest trade henceforth must be with Asia the Pacific is our ocean more and more Europe will manufacture the most it needs secure from its colonies the most it consumes. Where shall we turn for consumers of our surplus? Well, geography answers the question. China is our natural customer. She is near to us then to England, Germany or Russia, the commercial powers of the present and the future. They have moved near the China by securing bases on her borders. The Philippines gives us a base at the door of all the east. Okay. Much of this goes back to geostrategic reasoning. Okay. Uh and also economic though. Okay. Our largest trade henceforth must be with Asia. And he says here that okay you have these various European empires and the colonies serve as markets for their surplus goods. So he turns around and says, "Where are we going to turn for consumers of our surplus as noted here?" And he says, "Well, it's China. China will be our natural customer for America's surplus goods." And says it's actually close to closer to us than uh England, Germany, and Russia. Right. Okay. Okay. Now at the end here he says um well these other empires the German Empire, Russia, English, right? They are already looking all around Asia because they want to penetrate the markets and especially China, right? We want to penetrate the markets of China especially and with full knowledge of this occurring beverages says we need to position oursel in the Philippines because it's a perfect place uh as a um you know central location if you will right perfect central location and in fact it's at the door of all the east or meaning you know Asia so again this uh economic here but also combined with geostrategic reasons here. Okay. Now, in this slide, it's interesting because he focuses uh more steadily upon race and specifically Filipinos. All right. Now, uh last time, if you recall, I set up that distinction between civilization and savagery, right? civilized people versus savages. And here he applies it uh quite openly. He says here, "It will be hard for Americans who have not studied them to understand the people, the Filipino people. They are a barbarous race modified by three centuries of contact with a decadent race." Now, this sentence here, they are barbarous race modified by three centuries of contact with a decadent race. basically says, "Yeah, they're already uh, you know, barbaric or barbarous, but he also notices that they've been colonized for three centuries, 300 years by the Spanish, and Beverage calls them a decadent race. So, if anything, the Philippine Filipinos are hopeless, right? Uh, they're barbaric and decadent." And he goes on saying, "The Filipino is a South Sea malle put through a process of 300 years of superstition in religion, meaning Roman Catholicism, uh, dishonesty and dealing, disorder, and habits of industry, cruelty, caprice, corruption, and government. It is barely possible that 1,000 men in all the archipelago are capable of self-government in the Anglo-Saxon sense." So here uh if you recall our discussion of race in the introductory lecture of week one, we mentioned that race often involves the imputation of nonphysical traits or qualities upon persons with certain skin color. So often it deals with you know morality if you recall. So here he's doing exactly that. He's saying okay they're dishonest in dealing right so that's a moral uh trait right disorder in habits of industry meaning they're lazy indolent right they're cruel right caprice uh corruption in government right um and so on so forth in fact he says you know uh this uh barbarous race are incapable of really learning democracy or self-government, right? And here it brings up an interesting con concept called herinvoke democracy. Okay? Heronvoke democracy. By the way, it's spelled H E R R E N V O L K and then democracy. And this basically means uh that um back then uh it meant that only certain races uh could practice democracy. Okay, the the meaning today is a little different, but back then it meant that um only certain races, specifically the Anglo-Saxon race, are capable of understanding and practicing the quote arts of democracy unquote. Okay, so here he's definitely appealing to that uh belief system and he reinforces it with the sentence below it. He says, "My own belief is that there are not even a hundred men among them who comprehend what Anglo-Saxon self-government even means, and there are over 5 million people to be governed." By the way, it's probably twice as much as that. Okay. Um there are probably about 10 million or more Filipinos uh in 1900, right? Okay. So again, um her invoke democracy uh at work here. He says that's you know um they're incapable of understanding democracy but you connect that with the civilizing mission maybe we uh the United States he could argue should be the st as as the standard bearers of democracy should be the particular race uh chosen by God to introduce democracy to them. Right?