Okay, so now we're at the last slide of our analysis of beverages of speech. And here he says, "Mr. President, this question is deeper than any question of party politics, deeper than any question of the isolated policy of our country." Even notice here he's referring to isolationism, right? which is again um the debate in our country deeper even than any question of constitutional power. It is elemental. It is racial. Okay. So here I want to stop and say that hey it transcends all these issues political issues isolationism foreign policy the constitution. What matters most according to beverage or what he calls elemental? What is elemental? What is um fundamental in this debate is race. Okay, it is racial. So take note of that. I want to make sure that um you understand that beverage is emphasizing race first and foremost among all other factors. Now race here cannot be really uh extricated from civilizing mission or cultural reasons. Okay? because race the American race or Anglo-Saxons are again the standardbearers of democracy and and um so on and they are they are the ones responsible for bringing uh freedom and democracy to uh the backwards people right so that's the connection okay but he says god has not been preparing the English-sp speakaking and tutonic peoples for a thousand years for nothing but vain and idol self-contemplation and self admiration. No. So he's saying here, you know, Tutonic peoples, by the way, refers to uh Germanic speaking people in, you know, northern Europe. And he's basically arguing that the English speaking along with the Tutonic peoples, you know, they've been basically for thousands of years preparing uh to um eventually understand and create and even master the art of democracy, right? And just because they are the chosen race by God, well, they just can't sit and admire themselves, right? Uh this is not what God has been preparing them to do. So he goes on and says, "He has made us the master organizers of the world to establish a system where chaos reigns. He has given us the spirit of progress to overwhelm the forces of reaction throughout the earth. He has made us adept in government that we may administer government among savage and scenile peoples. Were it not for such a force as this, the world would relapse into barbarism and night. and of all our race. He has marked the American people as his chosen nation to finally lead in the regeneration of the world. This is the divine mission of America. We could call it, you know, civilizing mission, right? Connected religion. This is the divine mission of America and it holds for us all the profit, all the glory, all the happiness possible to man. We are trustees of the world's progress, guardians of its righteous peace. The judgment of the master is upon us. Quote, "Ye have made, excuse me, ye have been faithful over a few things. I will make you rule over many things." So he's uh quoting the Bible uh to justify this. Okay. So again the rest of this is really talking about how the world mostly consists of you know savagery of backwards people and therefore it's the responsibility you know um god-given responsibility to spread uh the art of government and to be specific democracy right what he calls you know um here um to administer government among savage and Sen's people, you know, and he says here, this is a burden again, right, to use that term. Um, but if it wasn't for us, the rest of the world would relapse or retreat into barbarism into night, right? And would lead to regeneration, lead to chaos. And therefore, God has chosen us to do this. So again, the Philippines is seen as a crucial step in this goal of um regeneration of the world. Notice that um the scope of beverage uh goes way beyond earthly matters, right? uh that it transcends these mundane issues, economic issues and therefore serves as a very effective justificatory framework to convince and persuade Americans to actually undertake uh the the goal to pursue the goal of overseas imperialism and colonization. Okay. So previously I mentioned that the United States considered itself as an extension of Anglo-Saxon civilization or English civilization. And at this time the English Empire was the mightiest empire in the world. They called the English Empire quote uh the empire where the sun never sets unquote because it held overseas territories throughout the world. And as I also described earlier, you know, your greatness as an empire was directly measured by the extent of your overseas possessions. So the English Empire was the greatest. And here's this English poet looking at what's happening with America, noticing that it uh was bending towards, you know, overseas imperialism and its foreign policy. And therefore, he writes this poem called the white man's burden. And notice the term white man. Today we think of persons of European descent, but here he's really talking about Anglo-Saxons, right? The English race. Uh, and that includes the American race back then. So, also notice that he includes the term burden as we described that this is a task, right? It's not an easy task. Uh, we're going to be inconvenienced by this burden, but we should do it. Uh, we are God's chosen people. And therefore, it's our moral responsibility to spread civilization. And again, this is civilizing mission, right? And of course, that's tied to race because you're civilizing the savages. Okay? So, here was a poem written by Rutyard Kipling, a very famous uh poet back then. And here he's urging America to follow the example of the British. in um the civilizing mission. Now you may have heard of Rutard Kibling uh probably his most famous work is the Jungle Book. And if you know anything about the Jungle Book, there's a character named Mowgi. And what is Mowgli? He's basically a you know uh a native, right? In other words, he's what you'd call what what Beverage called barbaric, right? The barbarous people, right? And even when you think of Mowgli, he's dark skinned and scantily dressed like a native, like a savage, so to speak, right? So, it makes sense that uh this would be a character in one of Roger Kipling's work. But uh as noted here, it says uh in February 1899, the British novelist and poet Roger Kipling wrote a poem entitled White Man's Burden, the United States and the Philippine Islands. In this poem, Kipling urged the US to take the burden of empire. Okay. All right. So, um let's look very briefly. We don't have to read the whole thing, but uh here you're going to see imagery in, you know, form of poetry that basically echoes that of uh Saturn beverage. It says, "Take up the white man's burden. Send forth the best ye breed. Go send your sons to exile to serve your captives need to wait in heavy harness on fluttered folk and wild your new caught sullen peoples half devil half child. So it's a burden but we have to do it because we are trustees of God to use uh beverages term and we need to send forth the best of our country right uh the best Americans send them abroad and to serve your captives and in this context the Filipinos right they are your new caught peoples they're half devil and half child. Okay. So clearly uh inferiorization uh in this racialization of uh Filipinos seen as less than human right in fact half devil interestingly enough uh going on take up the white man's burden impatience to abide to veiled the threat of terror and check to show pride by open speech and simple and hund times made plain to seek another profits and work another's gain and so on so forth. is basic basically a uh reiteration of what he's uh saying in the beginning right that this is a burden um we have to be patient um uh there's going to be a threat of terror but uh at the same time you know we have to you know not be too prideful right and and basically it's a burden again you know I I keep saying that but uh this is part of that civiliz civil izing mission, right? That the United States and Great Britain uh who really uh felt the country of Great Britain or the empire felt they were the ones uh that were um leading uh this effort, right? And America was following in its footsteps in um the civilizing mission. But again, when you look at this uh poetry, you know, it's clearly apparent that it's just full of racialization, full of racial uh hierarchies, right? And you put that together with civilizing mission and it gives you a good picture as to why uh many Americans of course the English felt justified in their overseas colonization and the control and domination of those persons of color abroad. Now if you recall at the beginning of uh this part of the lecture I mentioned that there was a significant faction of Americans that opposed colonization of the Philippines. Okay. So uh the luminaries that were part of this opposition they called themselves the anti-imperious league and it was indeed an influential and quite powerful league. Why am I saying this? because it was constituted by well-known Americans at this time. Uh Mark Twain the most well-known literary figure in the United States at that time. Web do the boys who was of course a famous African-American very controversial one back then African-American historian and academic. Andrew Carnegie, right? Famous captain of industry. Jane Adams, who was a well-known um progressivist uh activist, progressivist activist, basically helped immigrants and um helped them with assimilation so forth. Samuel Gumpers who was a union leader and then you had this senator George Boutwell who was prominent back then. Now their main objection against imperialism was exactly for ideological reasons. It was against the grain of American democracy and traditional isolationism. But it's important to note this. There were some very few marginal right number of imperialists who objected to the colonization of the Philippines on the grounds of race for racial reasons. Why was this? Well, for them they oppose it because understanding that there's no prior historical experience in our country with overseas colonization, right? That there's no precedent um that we could work with. The possibility existed that we may have to provide citizenship for these Filipino natives once we claim that area. Right? So it meant extending US citizenship to millions. Remember I'd mentioned it could be up to 10 million Filipinos at that time. Now this was incomprehensible to most Americans. The possibility of extending US citizenship to persons of color. Now, in the United States, you did have it extended to African-Americans uh by 1869 with the 14th Amendment, but going overseas and extending it to um a colony comprised of uh you know, millions was something that was outside the purview of, you know, a possibility, right, for most Americans. Okay? and also the possibility that hey these migrants uh or these Filipino subjects might actually migrate to the US mainland and indeed it would occur though not in super large numbers but we'll discuss that uh very shortly in this lecture.