Okay, so we analyzed the debate surrounding overseas colonialism, specifically the colonization of the Philippines, and we took note of how Senator Beverage accorded priority or primacy upon racial reasons. uh to quote the beverage himself, he stated quote unquote, "It is elemental, it is racial," unquote. And of course, he weds that to the notion of a civilizing mission. And even to religion, if you recall, um he invoked God, uh Americans as God's chosen people, even though he uses the words Anglo-Saxons or just Anglo. So, um, as it turned out, yeah, the imperialists won this debate and they were able to convince, um, statesmen and maybe even the broad mass of Americans that colonization was a worthwhile endeavor despite the fact that it was seen as a quote unquote burden, right? White man's burden. And most Americans probably felt that Filipinos were indeed incapable of governing themselves. Now, uh, as one could see, this annexation of the Philippines obviously proceeded forward without the consent of Filipinos themselves. I mean, let's remember before the SpanishAmerican War, uh, the Philippine nationalists were actually engaged in a war against their, uh, Spanish occupiers and they were winning the war. And when the US declared war against Spain, uh, well, American officials let it be known to the Philippines and to the Filipinos that they were there to help, uh, the Filipino revolutionist drive out the Spanish. And let's remember, there's parallels with that uh, and Cuba. Well, as it would turn out, the US would turn its back to the Filipino nationalists, the Filipino revolutionists, and they would proceed to move forward with the annexation of the Philippines as official American territory despite, of course, the heated protest from Philippine leaders. And this would lead to the outbreak of the PhilippineAmerican War by 1899. And this is the first war in US history uh whereby we are a colonial power trying to subjugate natives. Now I know on the continent there's the subjugation of Native Americans. Again this is overseas which again if you remember the context historically uh that's key to uh the ascendancy of empire. And if you wanted to be a great country back then, you had to play ball. You had to play the game, right, of imperial power. Now, typically in a in-person class, I like to see a show of hands among students who has heard of the PhilippineAmerican War before this class, right? And I wish I could do that now, but I obviously can't. Uh so many of you I would bet have not heard about this actual war even though it has uh very important significance in US history. As I just mentioned it marks our beginning as a empire right as a colonial power. Um but until very recently I have to say this war the Philippine American war was seen as a very minor event by historians on purpose. Okay, it was relegated to like this footnote almost in the history books, right? Uh this and by the way, they called it uh quote unquote insurrection uh decades ago, the Philippine insurrection as if it was this small uprising, right? Well, this was an actual war and it's this obviously a revolt of the Filipino nationals or the nationalist against the imperial power of no longer Spain but of the United States. And what was usually omitted from these earlier depictions, the so-called insurrection, was the tremendous loss of life, the tremendous destruction and devastation wrought by uh this colonial war against the Filipinos. And though the Philippine army and the guerrillas, they proved to be worthy foes. In fact, uh, one thing that needed to be invented during the war were new weaponry, specifically the Colt 45, because they needed it to stop the fanatical troops, uh, charging the Filipino troops that were charging them and the old weapons didn't seem sufficient enough to charge them. But yeah, uh the fact is that the Filipino army and the gorillas later on they were bound to lose simply because um they're fighting a nation, the United States, that was clearly superior in arms and military technology uh trained um professional troops, not to mention um expenditure to wage war overseas. Uh the Philippines was not even an established nation. So how could they uh galvanize expenditure and support not to mention uh weaponry to fight this? But again there was tenacious resistance of Filipinos. And note here on the uh time scale began in 1899 but it was declared as officially ending in 1902. However, you see military conflict continue until uh 1913. Okay. So, this war actually was waged for many years unofficially that is and it was precisely due to the tenacious resistance of Filipinos. Uh sure uh the the official army of the Philippines, you know, they surrendered in 1902, but as I just mentioned, it went on unofficially in the mountain sides and um the rural areas and the southern islands of the Philippines. And again due to this tenacious resistance um this prompted the US army to adopt tactics that today frankly could be called crimes against humanity. Uh torture, mass murder and um um killing of civilians, indiscriminate killing of civilians. Uh for example, shooting Filipinos quote unquote for sport, right? um depopulation campaigns as they called. That is to say they would take all the villagers out of a a area in the rural areas, make them um concentrate in a well a concentration camp and many of them died in these concentration camps especially due to epidemics, disease and so forth. and uh scorch earth policies that the United States would engage in there. And when I said torture and this is exactly what happens here. You have to remember this that United States as I keep mentioning is fighting it first war as a colonizer is to subdue natives overseas and they have no historical precedent no experience on how to do this and they find themselves basically emulating other European empires you know in their conflicts let's say in different parts of Asia the Middle East Africa what have you and trying to subjugate and subdue natives So basically torture becomes if you will standard operating procedure and let's remind ourselves here that uh even in the constitution it states that Americans don't engage in torture. We consider it unenlightened if you will. Um we consider it backwards even feudal. And the phrase in the constitution, I'm sure you've heard of it, cruel and unusual punishment. This basically designates more or less torture. And torture was seen as something that, you know, um, despotic kings did in Europe. Um, they took their enemies, put them in the dungeon, and let them rot and engage in torture. Americans don't do that. But here we are fighting this colonial war and we find ourselves engaged in torture tactics among the natives. Now um recent historians view the Philippine American war as a so-called race war. That is they see it as an extension of the Indian wars the so-called Indian wars that took place as United States expanded west uh on the North American continent during the 1800s. And in fact, many of those soldiers, the troops, US troops that would be sent across the Pacific to fight in the Philippines during the PhilippineAmerican War, many of them were veterans of the Indian Wars. And you know, the Indian Wars is basically uh the the wars against the last remaining Indian tribes, Native American tribes before the United States could finally reach the western shores. And really the biggest enemy then was the sue uh Indian tribe and the sue allies but the main tribe was to sue. So um again many of the veterans uh were sent to a new frontier so to speak across the Pacific to fight a new savage that is to say the Filipinos. And indeed, you hear the same kind of racial language here uh in the new frontier of the Philippines. Uh they're called savages, of course, univilized, uh primitive, and the n-word was uh typically cast towards Filipinos as well. And you connect that with that racial belief that many Anglo felt that Filipinos or just brownskinned people in general were racially inferior, that they were biologically less fit to use the language of social Darwinism uh back then than the Anglo race. And certainly that applies to democracy. If you recall uh Senator Beverage, right, that they are unfit to even practice democracy and therefore we should go and uh colonize the islands and teach them how to do this. So um also seen here is gender ideology at the frontier. Uh the killing of Filipino troops became justified due to their supposed lack of masculinity. There's this gendered language that circulated whereby Filipinos were seen as uh weak, unmanly. And by the way, this is despite their heroics on the battlefield. As I mentioned, why did this uh gendered language uh and gender depictions start circulating is because um as I kind of alluded to earlier, the Philippine National Army kind of disbanded because they were being routed on the battlefield and they even surrendered if uh you recall by 1902. But even after 1902, uh the Filipinos fought a guerilla war. And when you know about guerrilla wars, basically you're abandoning, you know, military strategy and you're engaging in tactics like hit and run and ambushes. Uh you don't meet on the battlefield in these um you know these planned event uh conflicts, right? Uh no, it's actually quote unquote uncivilized as it was believed by Americans back then. Univilized. And due to the fact that Filipinos now adopting guerrilla tactics were fighting quoteun univilized warfare uh quote unquote well that means that um they're not manly enough to fight right they're weak they're um you know univilized and cowardly and again this was used to justify the univilized methods so to speak used by Americans such as torture and the killing of innocence. Now, uh, as I also mentioned, this was not a brief war despite the official ending in 1902. And the official word after 1902 to um subdue Filipino natives was quote unquote pacification. Okay? Now, I'm introducing it here because what's going to happen is a lot of euphemisms as the United States began to colonized overseas. Okay? And euphemism, right? Uh was actually used when we um called our colony unincorporated territory as we will see. Okay. Ra we'll use that term rather than colony. uh will use the term pacification rather than conquest. Okay? Because conquest sounds like imperial powers, right? That's what empires do. We don't want to really acknowledge that in a frontal fashion. So we'll call it pacification. And still another euphemism that we will invent is this term benevolent assimilation. Okay? And that's very important to take note of benevolent assimilation. And this term will go on to describe America's colonial program in the Philippines. Once we subdue Filipinos after, you know, um, well, after the official end, 1902, we will begin to promulgate the, uh, American colonial structure and colonial program over our new colony in the Philippines. We won't call it colonization. We'll call it benevolent assimilation. And for now, just think about those two terms, benevolent, assimilation, and how they're juxtapose each other. And try to analy