As previously discussed, the tenacious resistance of the Filipino gorillas even after formal surrender. And many of these gorillas were armed with crude weapons, sometimes only native machetes. Uh well, this prompted the US Army to adopt tactics such as torture, uh mass murder, um what we call depopulation campaigns, that is to say, rounding up, um peasants in the rural areas and forcing them to concentrate within a concentration camp. um other things like scorch earth policies um the indiscriminate killing of Filipinos. Well, this is what happened in the years following. And if you look at this slide here, here was a common form of torture. It was called the water cure. Here the individual, the captive was uh placed um on his back and was forced um well they forced water down his throat here uh to imitate the sensation of drowning and that's their way to extract information. So uh this is the water cure and you may have heard of this in more recent times. Uh this is called water boarding. So interesting to note here, water boarding as called today uh was actually invented as a torture tactic during the Philippine American War. So again, we see here American troops adopting tactics which we know are unamerican. Again, let's recall the phrase cruel and unusual punishment. That's something that Americans do not partake in. And you know, in the interest of fairness, you have to take note that Filipinos uh the Filipino gorillas also perpetrated acts of torture when they captured American troops. Uh common one was to um have them perish by being eaten by uh by jungle ants. Okay. They would basically cover them with honey and keep them tied up and let the ants devour them. So that's horrific. But this is what's happening here in this um uh scene whereby you see the American colonizers attempting to subjugate um the resistors and it's um coming down to these tactics of torture here. Now another thing that happens as mentioned was the indiscriminate killing of civilians and um this uh actually intensified a little bit later in the war during the gorilla phase. So in this slide you see this order given by a general and his name was General Jacob H. Smith. And by the way, his nickname would turn out to be Jacob Howling Smith for that middle name H. And I'll explain why that was the case. Uh he ordered uh American troops to kill everyone over 10. Well, to be specific, every boy or male 10 and over. And what led to this? Well, um during the later phases of the guerilla war when the American troops were going to the southern parts of the Philippines in this area called the Bisayas, uh they were in camp there overnight and some Filipino gorillas snuck into that camp and as the American troops were um waking up, well, they snuck in with their native bolos, which is like a machete and they hacked to death dozens of American troops. And obviously this is guerrilla warfare, not quote unquote civilized warfare. And this infuriated uh American um American officers and leaders and the general in charge here in that region, Jacob Smith, uh as a form of retaliation ordered everyone over the age of 10, every boy over the age of 10 to be killed. Okay, so here's that direct order. kill everyone over 10. Um, so everyone they encountered during that period, they killed them if they were a male over 10. Not to mention, you see the destruction of entire villages. Uh, as affformentioned, you see the populations forced into concentration camps and much loss of life. Now, the war was indeed declared over in 1902, but of course, we've been discussing the fact that it continued unofficially until 1913. So, speaking of loss of life, how many Filipinos were killed during this protracted war, the PhilippineAmerican War? Well, it's hard to state with exact accuracy and precision uh a conservative estimate. however, uh has around 400,000 Filipinos losing their lives during the Philippine American War. However, some historians argue that uh what has to be figured into the casualty numbers are things like as mentioned diseases from epidemics, starvation, these these are things that happen as a result of warfare. And should you figure that into it, close to a million Filipinos died during this period of warfare between the US and the Philippines. Okay. So, tremendous loss of life either way. Uh, as far as American troops, over 4,000 American troops lost their lives and over 2,000 uh uh were injured. So, uh, still pretty significant numbers there. So despite the fact that the war proceeded unofficially, well even by 1902, the United States began embarking upon its colonial program in the Philippines. Uh and let's recall that one of the euphemisms that was uh employed by the US colonial state was this term called benevolent assimilation. And to remind you, benevolent assimilation refers to the colonial program in the Philippines. Again, notice the term benevolent. It's an act of just generosity, but also uh assimilation that it's expected uh that the Filipinos should receive um um the gifts of civilization, right? and try to assimilate to western culture, western civilization, whether it's government, economics, culture, and what have you. And by the way, look at these slides here. Uh, let's recall the term white man's burden by Richard Kipling. And here it shows Uncle Sam, of course, representing the United States. And now we have our new colonial subjects on our back. And you know, it's on the back because it's a burden. We are shouldering the responsibility to bring these natives, these backwards people and we're helping them climb this mountain towards civilization which is perched on top here says civilization here, right? But notice we're following uh England's example. This figure here, I'm not sure uh what you call this figure, but um that figure represents England and England already had its colonial subjects on its back and we are following their example. So there we go. Um and by the way, in the process it says that these people will overcome oppression, ignorance, superstition, vice. Okay. So also look at this slide. Um, here is a re um inscription of the Filipino native. I mean, let's remember they were savages. Let's remember that we had to pacify them. They certainly weren't thought of like this person who's happily uh greeting Uncle Sam. But that was before the war and during the war. Now that the war has ended, now that the um population has been quote unquote pacified, well, with this illustration, you see this reinscription of the Filipino native. Now, they are there with open arms and they are greeting Uncle Sam who is providing things like it says here civil government, enlightenment, amnesty, prosperity, uh a bunch of other things. So again, uh this is the way that uh you reinvent or reinscribe the Filipino native here after the war, after pacification once benevolent assimilation gets underway. Now, another thing that happens with the end of hostilities and the conclusion of the war, this led to the reconstruction of the Filipino as a racial group. Let's remember that race is a social construction. So, you could take note here of how this happens uh in the new colony of the United States. Now, let's recall, as I just mentioned, that Filipinos were once deemed as primitive, as savages and civilized. Let's remember Senator Beverages speech. Let's remember Rutard Kipling's uh description as half devil, half child. In fact, look at this illustration that shows Uncle Sam trying to catch this uncivilized Filipino. But now that they've been caught, so to speak, now that they've been subdued and pacified, and now that they greet Americans supposedly with open arms, uh this led to uh a reconstruction of the Filipino in racial terms. So why was this necessary? Well, think about this. Race involves essentialism. As stated here, um, Filipinos were once essentialized as primitive and barbaric. And let's remember, essentialism means a permanent quality, a permanent condition thought to be um characteristic of all people within that racial group. Now if they are indeed essentialized as primitive and barbaric, how could you tame them? How could you civilize them if they are indeed permanently primitive? Right? Well, this necessitates that reconstruction. No longer will they be considered a barbarous race because if they remain barbarous, if they remain essentialized as such, they can't be taught self-government. Um they can't be taught the quote unquote art of democracy. So the um the uh administrators felt it was necessary to again reconstruct uh the Filipino. Now, here is before and here's after. Now, you have Filipinos reconstructed, no longer savages, but and this is the real term, quote unquote, little brown brothers. Okay. Where did this term come from? It actually was uh coined by the colonial governor appointed by the US government and his name was Howard Taft. And if that name sounds familiar, well, it should because he went on to become a president uh later after his appointment as a colonial government. But when he came to the islands, uh you know, realizing this necessity of reconstructing the Filipinos as no longer barbaric or barbarous, well, he called them our little brown brothers. In fact, when you look at this term, it's an interesting state here where sure they're little in stature, right? So, they're still beneath us. They're still inferior in a way. Now, racially, that's to say physical skin color, right? Or physical characteristics, they're still brown, brown skin. But, uh what's different now is there's a family relation. There are brothers. So sure, they're still inferior. They're still brown, but there are brothers. And therefore, this reconstructs in racial terms the Filipinos. And since they've been reconstructed as no longer savage, well, that means the US can begin to impart upon them the gift of civilization, lessons in how uh they could become self-governing, lessons in democracy, and just in civilized culture in general.